---
layout: page
comments: false
title:  "PaperSaver"
permalink: /papersaver/
---
**Top keywords:** **`model`** (32), **`learn`** (21), **`learning`** (9), **`neural`** (9), **`trained`** (8), **`network`** (8), **`approach`** (8), **`sentence`** (8), **`word`** (7), **`models`** (7), **`tasks`** (6), **`neural network`** (6), **`sequence`** (6), **`dataset`** (6), **`text`** (5)

___

#### **(#96)** [Challenging Common Assumptions in the Unsupervised Learning of Disentangled Representations](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.12359v2) (added 2018 December 06 12:44 AM)

`disentangled`, `learned`, `unsupervised learned`, `models`, `data sets`, `data`, `proposed`, `disentangled representations`

Francesco Locatello, Stefan Bauer, Mario Lucic, Sylvain Gelly, Bernhard Scholkopf, Olivier Bachem (Submitted on 29 Nov 2018 (v1), last revised 2 Dec 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** In recent years, the interest in unsupervised learning of disentangled representations has significantly increased. The key assumption is that real-world data is generated by a few explanatory factors of variation and that these factors can be recovered by unsupervised learning algorithms. A large number of unsupervised learning approaches based on auto-encoding and quantitative evaluation metrics of disentanglement have been proposed; yet, the efficacy of the proposed approaches and utility of proposed notions of disentanglement has not been challenged in prior work. In this paper, we provide a sober look on recent progress in the field and challenge some common assumptions. 
We first theoretically show that the unsupervised learning of disentangled representations is fundamentally impossible without inductive biases on both the models and the data. Then, we train more than 12000 models covering the six most prominent methods, and evaluate them across six disentanglement metrics in a reproducible large-scale experimental study on seven different data sets. On the positive side, we observe that different methods successfully enforce properties "encouraged" by the corresponding losses. On the negative side, we observe in our study that well-disentangled models seemingly cannot be identified without access to ground-truth labels even if we are allowed to transfer hyperparameters across data sets. Furthermore, increased disentanglement does not seem to lead to a decreased sample complexity of learning for downstream tasks. 
These results suggest that future work on disentanglement learning should be explicit about the role of inductive biases and (implicit) supervision, investigate concrete benefits of enforcing disentanglement of the learned representations, and consider a reproducible experimental setup covering several data sets.



- for filter_size, conv_depth, conv_width, pctl_threshold, n_neighbors, alpha, nb_bins, maxpool in itertools.product([7]*10, [1], [1024], [0.25], [19, 21], [0.6], [25], [2]): model = UniquenessClf(img_size=img_size, filter_size=filter_size, conv_depth=conv_depth, conv_width = conv_width, pctl_threshold=pctl_threshold, n_neighbors=n_neighbors, alpha=alpha, maxpool=maxpool) for nb_labelled, nb_unlabelled in itertools.product([12], [256]): E.nb_labelled = nb_labelled E.nb_unlabelled = nb_unlabelled task_scores, avg_score = E.evaluate(model, verbose=1) #print("\nAVG: {}\n".format(avg_score)) for task, score in task_scores: res_str = "{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{}\t{:.4f}".format(filter_size, conv_depth, conv_width, pctl_threshold, n_neighbors, alpha, nb_bins, maxpool, nb_unlabelled, nb_labelled, task, score) print(res_str) f.write(res_str+"\n") f.flush() K.clear_session()


___

#### **(#95)** [Exploration by random network distillation](https://openreview.net/forum?id=H1lJJnR5Ym) (added 2018 November 24 06:43 PM)

`method`, `exploration`, `bonus`, `performance`, `game`, `flexibility`, `combine`, `reinforcement learning`

27 Sep 2018 (modified: 20 Nov 2018)ICLR 2019 Conference Blind Submission

**Abstract:** We introduce an exploration bonus for deep reinforcement learning methods that is easy to implement and adds minimal overhead to the computation performed. The bonus is the error of a neural network predicting features of the observations given by a fixed randomly initialized neural network. We also introduce a method to flexibly combine intrinsic and extrinsic rewards. We find that the random network distillation (RND) bonus combined with this increased flexibility enables significant progress on several hard exploration Atari games. In particular we establish state of the art performance on Montezuma's Revenge, a game famously difficult for deep reinforcement learning methods. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first method that achieves better than average human performance on this game without using demonstrations or having access the underlying state of the game, and occasionally completes the first level. This suggests that relatively simple methods that scale well can be sufficient to tackle challenging exploration problems.

___

#### **(#94)** [Unsupervised Learning by Predicting Noise](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.05310) (added 2018 October 10 08:37 PM)

`networks`, `features`, `unsupervised`, `representations`, `supervision`, `propose`, `perform`, `target`

Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin, (Submitted on 18 Apr 2017)

**Abstract:** Convolutional neural networks provide visual features that perform remarkably well in many computer vision applications. However, training these networks requires significant amounts of supervision. This paper introduces a generic framework to train deep networks, end-to-end, with no supervision. We propose to fix a set of target representations, called Noise As Targets (NAT), and to constrain the deep features to align to them. This domain agnostic approach avoids the standard unsupervised learning issues of trivial solutions and collapsing of features. Thanks to a stochastic batch reassignment strategy and a separable square loss function, it scales to millions of images. The proposed approach produces representations that perform on par with state-of-the-art unsupervised methods on ImageNet and Pascal VOC.



- More precisely, given a set of n images xi , we jointly learn the parameters  of the mapping f, and some target vectors yi


___

#### **(#93)** [Unsupervised Sentence Compression using Denoising Auto-Encoders](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.02669) (added 2018 October 08 08:29 PM)

`sentence`, `model`, `train`, `meaning`, `summarization`, `corpora`, `grammatical correctness`, `supervised baseline`

Thibault Fevry, Jason Phang (Submitted on 7 Sep 2018), CoNLL 2018

**Abstract:** In sentence compression, the task of shortening sentences while retaining the original meaning, models tend to be trained on large corpora containing pairs of verbose and compressed sentences. To remove the need for paired corpora, we emulate a summarization task and add noise to extend sentences and train a denoising auto-encoder to recover the original, constructing an end-to-end training regime without the need for any examples of compressed sentences. We conduct a human evaluation of our model on a standard text summarization dataset and show that it performs comparably to a supervised baseline based on grammatical correctness and retention of meaning. Despite being exposed to no target data, our unsupervised models learn to generate imperfect but reasonably readable sentence summaries. Although we underperform supervised models based on ROUGE scores, our models are competitive with a supervised baseline based on human evaluation for grammatical correctness and retention of meaning.



- Sentence compression can also be can be seen as a scaled down version of the text summarization problem

- We show that a simple denoising auto-encoder model, trained on removing and reordering words from a noised input sequence, can learn effective sentence compression, generating shorter sequences of reasonably grammatical text that retain the original meaning


___

#### **(#92)** [Meta-Learning a Dynamical Language Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.10631) (added 2018 October 08 08:06 PM)

`language model`, `weights`, `dynamical`, `term representations`, `learn`, `learner`, `evolving`, `gradient`

Thomas Wolf, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue (Submitted on 28 Mar 2018), accepted at ICLR 2018 workshop track

**Abstract:** We consider the task of word-level language modeling and study the possibility of combining hidden-states-based short-term representations with medium-term representations encoded in dynamical weights of a language model. Our work extends recent experiments on language models with dynamically evolving weights by casting the language modeling problem into an online learning-to-learn framework in which a meta-learner is trained by gradient-descent to continuously update a language model weights.



- we would like our model to store information in a multi-scale hierarchical way where 1. short time-scale representations can be encoded in neural activations (hidden state), 2. medium time-scale representations can be encoded in the dynamic of the activations by using dynamic weights, and 3. long time-scale memory can be encoded in a static set of weights of the network.


___

#### **(#91)** [Composing Complex Skills by Learning Transition Policies with Proximity Reward Induction](https://openreview.net/forum?id=rygrBhC5tQ) (added 2018 October 08 05:19 PM)

`skill`, `learn`, `reward`, `proximity`, `tasks`, `transition`, `effectively`, `transition policies`

ICLR 2019 Conference Blind Submission

**Abstract:** Intelligent creatures acquire complex skills by exploiting previously learned skills and learning to transition between them. To empower machines with this ability, we propose transition policies which effectively connect primitive skills to perform sequential tasks without handcrafted rewards. To effectively train our transition policies, we introduce proximity predictors which induce rewards gauging proximity to suitable initial states for the next skill. The proposed method is evaluated on a diverse set of experiments for continuous control in both bi-pedal locomotion and robotic arm manipulation tasks in MuJoCo. We demonstrate that transition policies enable us to effectively learn complex tasks and the induced proximity reward computed using the initiation predictor improves training efficiency. Videos of policies learned by our algorithm and baselines can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/transitions-iclr2019.



- TL;DR: Transition policies enable agents to execute learned skills smoothly to perform complex tasks.

- To bridge the gap between skills, we propose a modular framework that executes skills sequentially and employs transition policies, which smoothly navigate from an ending state of a skill to suitable initial states of the following skill


___

#### **(#90)** [Deep learning generalizes because the parameter-function map is biased towards simple functions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08522) (added 2018 October 08 05:07 PM)

`generalization`, `deep neural networks`, `bias`, `error`, `target function`, `regularization`, `pac bayes`, `remarkably`

Guillermo Valle-Perez, Chico Q. Camargo, Ard A. Louis (Submitted on 22 May 2018 (v1), last revised 28 Sep 2018 (this version, v3))

**Abstract:** Deep neural networks generalize remarkably well without explicit regularization even in the strongly over-parametrized regime. This success suggests that some form of implicit regularization must be at work. In this paper we argue that a strong intrinsic bias in the parameter-function map helps explain the success of deep neural networks. We provide evidence that the parameter-function map results in a heavily biased prior over functions, if we assume that the training algorithm samples parameters close to uniformly within the zero-error region. The PAC-Bayes theorem then guarantees good expected generalization for target functions producing high-likelihood training sets. We exploit connections between deep neural networks and Gaussian processes to estimate the marginal likelihood, finding remarkably good agreement between Gaussian processes and neural networks for small input sets. Using approximate marginal likelihood calculations we produce nontrivial generalization PAC-Bayes error bounds which correlate well with the true error on realistic datasets such as MNIST and CIFAR and for architectures including convolutional and fully connected networks. As predicted by recent arguments based on algorithmic information theory, we find that the prior probability drops exponentially with linear increases in several measures of descriptional complexity of the target function. As target functions in many real problems are expected to be highly structured, this simplicity bias offers an insight into why deep networks generalize well on real world problems, but badly on randomized data.



- We show that the parameter-function map of deep neural networks is extremely biased towards simple functions, and therefore the prior over functions is expected to be extremely biased too. We claim this intrinsic bias is the fundamental source of inductive bias allowing neural networks generalize


___

#### **(#89)** [Phrase-Based & Neural Unsupervised Machine Translation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.07755) (added 2018 October 08 04:06 AM)

`model`, `language`, `translate`, `availability`, `english`, `wmt`, `leverage`, `supervised`

Guillaume Lample, Myle Ott, Alexis Conneau, Ludovic Denoyer, Marc'Aurelio Ranzato (Submitted on 20 Apr 2018 (v1), last revised 13 Aug 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** Machine translation systems achieve near human-level performance on some languages, yet their effectiveness strongly relies on the availability of large amounts of parallel sentences, which hinders their applicability to the majority of language pairs. This work investigates how to learn to translate when having access to only large monolingual corpora in each language. We propose two model variants, a neural and a phrase-based model. Both versions leverage a careful initialization of the parameters, the denoising effect of language models and automatic generation of parallel data by iterative back-translation. These models are significantly better than methods from the literature, while being simpler and having fewer hyper-parameters. On the widely used WMT'14 English-French and WMT'16 German-English benchmarks, our models respectively obtain 28.1 and 25.2 BLEU points without using a single parallel sentence, outperforming the state of the art by more than 11 BLEU points. On low-resource languages like English-Urdu and English-Romanian, our methods achieve even better results than semi-supervised and supervised approaches leveraging the paucity of available bitexts. Our code for NMT and PBSMT is publicly available.

___

#### **(#88)** [Neural Architecture Optimization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1808.07233) (added 2018 September 30 06:25 PM)

`architecture`, `task`, `method`, `decoded`, `optimization`, `neural architecture`, `continuous`, `discovered`

Renqian Luo, Fei Tian, Tao Qin, Enhong Chen, Tie-Yan Liu (Submitted on 22 Aug 2018 (v1), last revised 5 Sep 2018 (this version, v3))

**Abstract:** Automatic neural architecture design has shown its potential in discovering powerful neural network architectures. Existing methods, no matter based on reinforcement learning or evolutionary algorithms (EA), conduct architecture search in a discrete space, which is highly inefficient. In this paper, we propose a simple and efficient method to automatic neural architecture design based on continuous optimization. We call this new approach neural architecture optimization (NAO). There are three key components in our proposed approach: (1) An encoder embeds/maps neural network architectures into a continuous space. (2) A predictor takes the continuous representation of a network as input and predicts its accuracy. (3) A decoder maps a continuous representation of a network back to its architecture. The performance predictor and the encoder enable us to perform gradient based optimization in the continuous space to find the embedding of a new architecture with potentially better accuracy. Such a better embedding is then decoded to a network by the decoder. Experiments show that the architecture discovered by our method is very competitive for image classification task on CIFAR-10 and language modeling task on PTB, outperforming or on par with the best results of previous architecture search methods with a significantly reduction of computational resources. Specifically we obtain 2.07% test set error rate for CIFAR-10 image classification task and 55.9 test set perplexity of PTB language modeling task. The best discovered architectures on both tasks are successfully transferred to other tasks such as CIFAR-100 and WikiText-2.

___

#### **(#87)** [Large Scale GAN Training for High Fidelity Natural Image Synthesis](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=B1xsqj09Fm) (added 2018 September 30 04:48 PM)

`generating`, `modeling`, `52`, `truncating`, `imagenet`, `fid`, `inception`, `sample`

TL;DR: GANs benefit from scaling up., ICLR 2019 Conference Blind Submission

**Abstract:** Despite recent progress in generative image modeling, successfully generating high-resolution, diverse samples from complex datasets such as ImageNet remains an elusive goal. To this end, we train Generative Adversarial Networks at the largest scale yet attempted, and study the instabilities specific to such scale. We find that applying orthogonal regularization to the generator renders it amenable to a simple "truncation trick", allowing fine control over the trade-off between sample fidelity and variety by truncating the latent space. Our modifications lead to models which set the new state of the art in class-conditional image synthesis. When trained on ImageNet at 128x128 resolution, our models (BigGANs) achieve an Inception Score (IS) of 166.3 and Frechet Inception Distance (FID) of 9.6, improving over the previous best IS of 52.52 and FID of 18.65.

___

#### **(#86)** [Generative adversarial interpolative autoencoding: adversarial training on latent space interpolations encourage convex latent distributions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.06650) (added 2018 July 19 04:19 AM)

`discriminator`, `ae`, `images`, `network`, `interpolations`, `adversarial`, `generative`, `latent`

Tim Sainburg, Marvin Thielk, Brad Theilman, Benjamin Migliori, Timothy Gentner (Submitted on 17 Jul 2018)

**Abstract:** We present a neural network architecture based upon the Autoencoder (AE) and Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) that promotes a convex latent distribution by training adversarially on latent space interpolations. By using an AE as both the generator and discriminator of a GAN, we pass a pixel-wise error function across the discriminator, yielding an AE which produces non-blurry samples that match both high- and low-level features of the original images. Interpolations between images in this space remain within the latent-space distribution of real images as trained by the discriminator, and therfore preserve realistic resemblances to the network inputs.



- acts as a GAN in which both the generator and the discriminator are AEs

- We then train the Generator to create images which autoencode well in the discriminator, and the discriminator to autoencode real images well, and generated images poorly. The generator also generates interpolated samples in latent space which are discriminated by the discriminator, thus training the network explicitly to produce samples which can be interpolated between


___

#### **(#85)** [Learning to Learn without Gradient Descent by Gradient Descent](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.03824) (added 2018 July 17 10:02 PM)

`optimization`, `learn`, `hyper parameter`, `parameter tuning`, `learn optimization`, `trained`, `functions`, `simple`

Yutian Chen, Matthew W. Hoffman, Sergio Gomez Colmenarejo, Misha Denil, Timothy P. Lillicrap, Matt Botvinick, Nando de Freitas (Submitted on 11 Nov 2016 (v1), last revised 12 Jun 2017 (this version, v6)), Accepted by ICML 2017

**Abstract:** We learn recurrent neural network optimizers trained on simple synthetic functions by gradient descent. We show that these learned optimizers exhibit a remarkable degree of transfer in that they can be used to efficiently optimize a broad range of derivative-free black-box functions, including Gaussian process bandits, simple control objectives, global optimization benchmarks and hyper-parameter tuning tasks. Up to the training horizon, the learned optimizers learn to trade-off exploration and exploitation, and compare favourably with heavily engineered Bayesian optimization packages for hyper-parameter tuning.

___

#### **(#84)** [Neural Optimizer Search with Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07417) (added 2018 March 28 04:11 PM)

`optimization`, `train`, `architectures`, `gradient`, `neural`, `discovering`, `controller`, `update`

Irwan Bello, Barret Zoph, Vijay Vasudevan, Quoc V. Le, (Submitted on 21 Sep 2017 (v1), last revised 22 Sep 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** We present an approach to automate the process of discovering optimization methods, with a focus on deep learning architectures. We train a Recurrent Neural Network controller to generate a string in a domain specific language that describes a mathematical update equation based on a list of primitive functions, such as the gradient, running average of the gradient, etc. The controller is trained with Reinforcement Learning to maximize the performance of a model after a few epochs. On CIFAR-10, our method discovers several update rules that are better than many commonly used optimizers, such as Adam, RMSProp, or SGD with and without Momentum on a ConvNet model. We introduce two new optimizers, named PowerSign and AddSign, which we show transfer well and improve training on a variety of different tasks and architectures, including ImageNet classification and Google's neural machine translation system.

___

#### **(#83)** [Learning Algorithms for Active Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.00088) (added 2018 July 17 09:51 PM)

`model`, `learning`, `selection heuristic`, `construct prediction`, `prediction functions`, `item selection`, `labeled training`, `sets`

Philip Bachman, Alessandro Sordoni, Adam Trischler (Submitted on 31 Jul 2017), Accepted for publication at ICML 2017

**Abstract:** We introduce a model that learns active learning algorithms via metalearning. For a distribution of related tasks, our model jointly learns: a data representation, an item selection heuristic, and a method for constructing prediction functions from labeled training sets. Our model uses the item selection heuristic to gather labeled training sets from which to construct prediction functions. Using the Omniglot and MovieLens datasets, we test our model in synthetic and practical settings.

___

#### **(#82)** [The Shattered Gradients Problem: If resnets are the answer, then what is the question?](https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08591) (added 2018 July 17 09:40 PM)

`gradients`, `initialization`, `architectures`, `shattered`, `skip connected`, `networks`, `problem`, `standard feedforward`

David Balduzzi, Marcus Frean, Lennox Leary, JP Lewis, Kurt Wan-Duo Ma, Brian McWilliams (Submitted on 28 Feb 2017 (v1), last revised 6 Jun 2018 (this version, v2)), ICML 2017, final version

**Abstract:** A long-standing obstacle to progress in deep learning is the problem of vanishing and exploding gradients. Although, the problem has largely been overcome via carefully constructed initializations and batch normalization, architectures incorporating skip-connections such as highway and resnets perform much better than standard feedforward architectures despite well-chosen initialization and batch normalization. In this paper, we identify the shattered gradients problem. Specifically, we show that the correlation between gradients in standard feedforward networks decays exponentially with depth resulting in gradients that resemble white noise whereas, in contrast, the gradients in architectures with skip-connections are far more resistant to shattering, decaying sublinearly. Detailed empirical evidence is presented in support of the analysis, on both fully-connected networks and convnets. Finally, we present a new "looks linear" (LL) initialization that prevents shattering, with preliminary experiments showing the new initialization allows to train very deep networks without the addition of skip-connections.

___

#### **(#81)** [Troubling Trends in Machine Learning Scholarship](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.03341) (added 2018 July 17 03:52 PM)

`pattern`, `e g`, `technical`, `paper`, `knowledge`, `term`, `community`, `trending`

Zachary C. Lipton, Jacob Steinhardt (Submitted on 9 Jul 2018)

**Abstract:** Collectively, machine learning (ML) researchers are engaged in the creation and dissemination of knowledge about data-driven algorithms. In a given paper, researchers might aspire to any subset of the following goals, among others: to theoretically characterize what is learnable, to obtain understanding through empirically rigorous experiments, or to build a working system that has high predictive accuracy. While determining which knowledge warrants inquiry may be subjective, once the topic is fixed, papers are most valuable to the community when they act in service of the reader, creating foundational knowledge and communicating as clearly as possible. 
Recent progress in machine learning comes despite frequent departures from these ideals. In this paper, we focus on the following four patterns that appear to us to be trending in ML scholarship: (i) failure to distinguish between explanation and speculation; (ii) failure to identify the sources of empirical gains, e.g., emphasizing unnecessary modifications to neural architectures when gains actually stem from hyper-parameter tuning; (iii) mathiness: the use of mathematics that obfuscates or impresses rather than clarifies, e.g., by confusing technical and non-technical concepts; and (iv) misuse of language, e.g., by choosing terms of art with colloquial connotations or by overloading established technical terms. 
While the causes behind these patterns are uncertain, possibilities include the rapid expansion of the community, the consequent thinness of the reviewer pool, and the often-misaligned incentives between scholarship and short-term measures of success (e.g., bibliometrics, attention, and entrepreneurial opportunity). While each pattern offers a corresponding remedy (don't do it), we also discuss some speculative suggestions for how the community might combat these trends.

___

#### **(#80)** [Machine Theory of Mind](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.07740) (added 2018 July 17 03:17 PM)

`agent`, `model`, `learning`, `behaviour`, `build`, `tomnet`, `observations`, `ai`

Neil C. Rabinowitz, Frank Perbet, H. Francis Song, Chiyuan Zhang, S.M. Ali Eslami, Matthew Botvinick (Submitted on 21 Feb 2018 (v1), last revised 12 Mar 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** Theory of mind (ToM; Premack & Woodruff, 1978) broadly refers to humans' ability to represent the mental states of others, including their desires, beliefs, and intentions. We propose to train a machine to build such models too. We design a Theory of Mind neural network -- a ToMnet -- which uses meta-learning to build models of the agents it encounters, from observations of their behaviour alone. Through this process, it acquires a strong prior model for agents' behaviour, as well as the ability to bootstrap to richer predictions about agents' characteristics and mental states using only a small number of behavioural observations. We apply the ToMnet to agents behaving in simple gridworld environments, showing that it learns to model random, algorithmic, and deep reinforcement learning agents from varied populations, and that it passes classic ToM tasks such as the "Sally-Anne" test (Wimmer & Perner, 1983; Baron-Cohen et al., 1985) of recognising that others can hold false beliefs about the world. We argue that this system -- which autonomously learns how to model other agents in its world -- is an important step forward for developing multi-agent AI systems, for building intermediating technology for machine-human interaction, and for advancing the progress on interpretable AI.



- Our goal is not to assert a generative model of agents behaviour and an algorithm to invert it. Rather, we focus on the problem of how an observer could learn autonomously how to model other agents using limited data (Botvinick et al., 2017). This distinguishes our work from previous literature, which has relied on hand-crafted models of agents as noisy-rational planners  e.g. using inverse RL (Ng et al., 2000; Abbeel & Ng, 2004)

- To do this, we formulate a meta-learning task. We construct an observer, who in each episode gets access to a set of behavioural traces of a novel agent. The observers goal is to make predictions of the agents future behaviour.

- We distinguish between a general theory of mind  the learned weights of the network, which encapsulate predictions about the common behaviour of all agents in the training set  and an agent-specific theory of mind  the agent embedding formed from observations about a single agent at test time, which encapsulates what makes this agents character and mental state distinct from others. These correspond to a prior and posterior over agent behaviour


___

#### **(#79)** [Modeling Others using Oneself in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning](https://research.fb.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/Modeling-Others-using-Oneself-in-Multi-Agent-Reinforcement-Learning.pdf?) (added 2018 July 17 03:14 PM)

`agent`, `learn`, `hidden state`, `tasks`, `setting`, `policies`, `approach`, `players hidden`

Roberta Raileanu, Emily Denton, Arthur Szlam, Rob Fergus (Submitted on 26 Feb 2018 (v1), last revised 23 Mar 2018 (this version, v3)), submitted to ICML 2018

**Abstract:** We consider the multi-agent reinforcement learning
setting with imperfect information in which
each agent is trying to maximize its own utility.
The reward function depends on the hidden state
(or goal) of both agents, so the agents must infer
the other players hidden goals from their observed
behavior in order to solve the tasks. We
propose a new approach for learning in these domains:
Self Other-Modeling (SOM), in which
an agent uses its own policy to predict the other
agents actions and update its belief of their hidden
state in an online manner. We evaluate this
approach on three different tasks and show that
the agents are able to learn better policies using
their estimate of the other players hidden states,
in both cooperative and adversarial settings.

___

#### **(#78)** [On Accurate Evaluation of GANs for Language Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.04936) (added 2018 July 17 02:44 PM)

`generated`, `gan model`, `model`, `metrics`, `lm`, `gan`, `sensitive`, `language generated`

Stanislau Semeniuta, Aliaksei Severyn, Sylvain Gelly (Submitted on 13 Jun 2018 (v1), last revised 14 Jun 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are a promising approach to language generation. The latest works introducing novel GAN models for language generation use n-gram based metrics for evaluation and only report single scores of the best run. In this paper, we argue that this often misrepresents the true picture and does not tell the full story, as GAN models can be extremely sensitive to the random initialization and small deviations from the best hyperparameter choice. In particular, we demonstrate that the previously used BLEU score is not sensitive to semantic deterioration of generated texts and propose alternative metrics that better capture the quality and diversity of the generated samples. We also conduct a set of experiments comparing a number of GAN models for text with a conventional Language Model (LM) and find that neither of the considered models performs convincingly better than the LM.



- proposed in the computer vision community, Frechet Inception Distance (FID) [16] computes the distance between distributions of features extracted from real and generated samples.


___

#### **(#77)** [Measuring abstract reasoning in neural networks](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v80/santoro18a.html) (added 2018 July 16 05:36 PM)

`model`, `generalisation`, `differ`, `abstract reasoning`, `trained`, `test`, `dataset`, `neural networks`

Adam Santoro, Felix Hill, David Barrett, Ari Morcos, Timothy Lillicrap ; Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, PMLR 80:4477-4486, 2018.

**Abstract:** Whether neural networks can learn abstract reasoning or whether they merely rely on superficial statistics is a topic of recent debate. Here, we propose a dataset and challenge designed to probe abstract reasoning, inspired by a well-known human IQ test. To succeed at this challenge, models must cope with various generalisation regimes in which the training data and test questions differ in clearly-defined ways. We show that popular models such as ResNets perform poorly, even when the training and test sets differ only minimally, and we present a novel architecture, with structure designed to encourage reasoning, that does significantly better. When we vary the way in which the test questions and training data differ, we find that our model is notably proficient at certain forms of generalisation, but notably weak at others. We further show that the models ability to generalise improves markedly if it is trained to predict symbolic explanations for its answers. Altogether, we introduce and explore ways to both measure and induce stronger abstract reasoning in neural networks. Our freely-available dataset should motivate further progress in this direction.

___

#### **(#76)** [Learning to Compare: Relation Network for Few-Shot Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.06025) (added 2018 July 16 02:57 PM)

`learn`, `shot learn`, `images`, `classifier`, `rn`, `framework`, `relation`, `trained`

Flood Sung, Yongxin Yang, Li Zhang, Tao Xiang, Philip H.S. Torr, Timothy M. Hospedales (Submitted on 16 Nov 2017 (v1), last revised 27 Mar 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** We present a conceptually simple, flexible, and general framework for few-shot learning, where a classifier must learn to recognise new classes given only few examples from each. Our method, called the Relation Network (RN), is trained end-to-end from scratch. During meta-learning, it learns to learn a deep distance metric to compare a small number of images within episodes, each of which is designed to simulate the few-shot setting. Once trained, a RN is able to classify images of new classes by computing relation scores between query images and the few examples of each new class without further updating the network. Besides providing improved performance on few-shot learning, our framework is easily extended to zero-shot learning. Extensive experiments on five benchmarks demonstrate that our simple approach provides a unified and effective approach for both of these two tasks.

___

#### **(#75)** [Universal Language Model Fine-tuning for Text Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.06146) (added 2018 July 12 10:47 PM)

`task`, `nlp`, `scratch`, `fine tuning`, `transfer learning`, `method`, `training`, `model`

Jeremy Howard, Sebastian Ruder (Submitted on 18 Jan 2018 (v1), last revised 23 May 2018 (this version, v5))

**Abstract:** Inductive transfer learning has greatly impacted computer vision, but existing approaches in NLP still require task-specific modifications and training from scratch. We propose Universal Language Model Fine-tuning (ULMFiT), an effective transfer learning method that can be applied to any task in NLP, and introduce techniques that are key for fine-tuning a language model. Our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art on six text classification tasks, reducing the error by 18-24% on the majority of datasets. Furthermore, with only 100 labeled examples, it matches the performance of training from scratch on 100x more data. We open-source our pretrained models and code.

___

#### **(#74)** [Deep contextualized word representations](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.05365) (added 2018 July 12 10:45 PM)

`model`, `deep`, `word`, `representation`, `internal`, `pre trained`, `analysis`, `across`

Matthew E. Peters, Mark Neumann, Mohit Iyyer, Matt Gardner, Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, Luke Zettlemoyer (Submitted on 15 Feb 2018 (v1), last revised 22 Mar 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** We introduce a new type of deep contextualized word representation that models both (1) complex characteristics of word use (e.g., syntax and semantics), and (2) how these uses vary across linguistic contexts (i.e., to model polysemy). Our word vectors are learned functions of the internal states of a deep bidirectional language model (biLM), which is pre-trained on a large text corpus. We show that these representations can be easily added to existing models and significantly improve the state of the art across six challenging NLP problems, including question answering, textual entailment and sentiment analysis. We also present an analysis showing that exposing the deep internals of the pre-trained network is crucial, allowing downstream models to mix different types of semi-supervision signals.

___

#### **(#73)** [Meta-Learning by the Baldwin Effect](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.07917) (added 2018 July 04 04:28 PM)

`learn`, `baldwin effect`, `gradient`, `maml`, `hyperparameters`, `biases`, `genetically accommodate`, `parameters`

Chrisantha Thomas Fernando, Jakub Sygnowski, Simon Osindero, Jane Wang, Tom Schaul, Denis Teplyashin, Pablo Sprechmann, Alexander Pritzel, Andrei A. Rusu (Submitted on 6 Jun 2018 (v1), last revised 22 Jun 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** The scope of the Baldwin effect was recently called into question by two papers that closely examined the seminal work of Hinton and Nowlan. To this date there has been no demonstration of its necessity in empirically challenging tasks. Here we show that the Baldwin effect is capable of evolving few-shot supervised and reinforcement learning mechanisms, by shaping the hyperparameters and the initial parameters of deep learning algorithms. Furthermore it can genetically accommodate strong learning biases on the same set of problems as a recent machine learning algorithm called MAML "Model Agnostic Meta-Learning" which uses second-order gradients instead of evolution to learn a set of reference parameters (initial weights) that can allow rapid adaptation to tasks sampled from a distribution. Whilst in simple cases MAML is more data efficient than the Baldwin effect, the Baldwin effect is more general in that it does not require gradients to be backpropagated to the reference parameters or hyperparameters, and permits effectively any number of gradient updates in the inner loop. The Baldwin effect learns strong learning dependent biases, rather than purely genetically accommodating fixed behaviours in a learning independent manner.

___

#### **(#72)** [Manifold Mixup: Encouraging Meaningful On-Manifold Interpolation as a Regularizer](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.05236) (added 2018 June 20 10:56 PM)

`data`, `trained`, `manifold mixup`, `manifold`, `adversarial examples`, `combinations`, `confident`, `improved`

Vikas Verma, Alex Lamb, Christopher Beckham, Aaron Courville, Ioannis Mitliagkis, Yoshua Bengio (Submitted on 13 Jun 2018)

**Abstract:** Deep networks often perform well on the data manifold on which they are trained, yet give incorrect (and often very confident) answers when evaluated on points from off of the training distribution. This is exemplified by the adversarial examples phenomenon but can also be seen in terms of model generalization and domain shift. We propose Manifold Mixup which encourages the network to produce more reasonable and less confident predictions at points with combinations of attributes not seen in the training set. This is accomplished by training on convex combinations of the hidden state representations of data samples. Using this method, we demonstrate improved semi-supervised learning, learning with limited labeled data, and robustness to adversarial examples. Manifold Mixup requires no (significant) additional computation. Analytical experiments on both real data and synthetic data directly support our hypothesis for why the Manifold Mixup method improves results.

___

#### **(#71)** [Autoregressive Quantile Networks for Generative Modeling](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.05575) (added 2018 June 18 09:15 PM)

`aiqn`, `model`, `quantile`, `implicit`, `perceptual quality`, `diverse`, `improvements`, `sample`

Georg Ostrovski, Will Dabney, Remi Munos (Submitted on 14 Jun 2018)

**Abstract:** We introduce autoregressive implicit quantile networks (AIQN), a fundamentally different approach to generative modeling than those commonly used, that implicitly captures the distribution using quantile regression. AIQN is able to achieve superior perceptual quality and improvements in evaluation metrics, without incurring a loss of sample diversity. The method can be applied to many existing models and architectures. In this work we extend the PixelCNN model with AIQN and demonstrate results on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet using Inception score, FID, non-cherry-picked samples, and inpainting results. We consistently observe that AIQN yields a highly stable algorithm that improves perceptual quality while maintaining a highly diverse distribution.

___

#### **(#70)** [q-Neurons: Neuron Activations based on Stochastic Jackson's Derivative Operators](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.00149) (added 2018 June 18 06:55 PM)

`stochastic`, `neurons`, `activation functions`, `q neurons`, `functions`, `scalable`, `experimentally`, `architectures`

Frank Nielsen, Ke Sun (Submitted on 1 Jun 2018 (v1), last revised 14 Jun 2018 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** We propose a new generic type of stochastic neurons, called q-neurons, that considers activation functions based on Jackson's q-derivatives with stochastic parameters q. Our generalization of neural network architectures with q-neurons is shown to be both scalable and very easy to implement. We demonstrate experimentally consistently improved performances over state-of-the-art standard activation functions, both on training and testing loss functions.



- Based on our experiments, one should almost always use q-activation instead of its deterministic counterpart

- We can easily implement q-neurons based on the following reference code


___

#### **(#69)** [Hierarchical Neural Story Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.04833) (added 2018 June 18 06:05 PM)

`model`, `improvements`, `stories generated`, `stories`, `human`, `dataset`, `hierarchical`, `prompt`

Angela Fan, Mike Lewis, Yann Dauphin (Submitted on 13 May 2018)

**Abstract:** We explore story generation: creative systems that can build coherent and fluent passages of text about a topic. We collect a large dataset of 300K human-written stories paired with writing prompts from an online forum. Our dataset enables hierarchical story generation, where the model first generates a premise, and then transforms it into a passage of text. We gain further improvements with a novel form of model fusion that improves the relevance of the story to the prompt, and adding a new gated multi-scale self-attention mechanism to model long-range context. Experiments show large improvements over strong baselines on both automated and human evaluations. Human judges prefer stories generated by our approach to those from a strong non-hierarchical model by a factor of two to one.



- we allow the model to optionally attend to a 0 vector at each timestep, if it chooses to ignore the information of past timesteps

- We propose a fusion-based approach to encourage conditioning on the prompt. We train a seq2seq model that has access to the hidden states of a pretrained seq2seq model. Doing so can be seen as a type of boosting or residual learning that allows the second model to focus on what the first model failed to learn

- We use prompt ranking to assess how strongly a models output depends on its input. Stories are decoded under 10 different prompts9 randomly sampled prompts and 1 true corresponding promptand the likelihood of the story given the various prompts is recorded


___

#### **(#68)** [Playing Atari with Six Neurons](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.01363) (added 2018 June 08 12:03 PM)

`network`, `learn`, `deep`, `reinforcement learn`, `evolution strategies`, `neural network`, `techniques`, `atari games`

Giuseppe Cuccu, Julian Togelius, Philippe Cudre-Mauroux, (Submitted on 4 Jun 2018)

**Abstract:** Deep reinforcement learning on Atari games maps pixel directly to actions; internally, the deep neural network bears the responsibility of both extracting useful information and making decisions based on it. Aiming at devoting entire deep networks to decision making alone, we propose a new method for learning policies and compact state representations separately but simultaneously for policy approximation in reinforcement learning. State representations are generated by a novel algorithm based on Vector Quantization and Sparse Coding, trained online along with the network, and capable of growing its dictionary size over time. We also introduce new techniques allowing both the neural network and the evolution strategy to cope with varying dimensions. This enables networks of only 6 to 18 neurons to learn to play a selection of Atari games with performance comparable---and occasionally superior---to state-of-the-art techniques using evolution strategies on deep networks two orders of magnitude larger.

___

#### **(#67)** [Strong Baselines for Neural Semi-supervised Learning under Domain Shift](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.09530) (added 2018 April 27 01:18 AM)

`neural`, `approaches`, `tri training`, `models`, `classic`, `novel`, `baseline`, `evaluate`

Sebastian Ruder, Barbara Plank, (Submitted on 25 Apr 2018), ACL 2018

**Abstract:** Novel neural models have been proposed in recent years for learning under domain shift. Most models, however, only evaluate on a single task, on proprietary datasets, or compare to weak baselines, which makes comparison of models difficult. In this paper, we re-evaluate classic general-purpose bootstrapping approaches in the context of neural networks under domain shifts vs. recent neural approaches and propose a novel multi-task tri-training method that reduces the time and space complexity of classic tri-training. Extensive experiments on two benchmarks are negative: while our novel method establishes a new state-of-the-art for sentiment analysis, it does not fare consistently the best. More importantly, we arrive at the somewhat surprising conclusion that classic tri-training, with some additions, outperforms the state of the art. We conclude that classic approaches constitute an important and strong baseline.

___

#### **(#66)** [Learning to Extract Coherent Summary via Deep Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.07036) (added 2018 April 23 07:20 PM)

`coherence`, `summaries`, `neural coherence model`, `neural extracting summarization`, `rnes`, `extracting`, `propose neural`, `propose`

Yuxiang Wu, Baotian Hu, Yuxiang Wu, Baotian Hu

**Abstract:** Coherence plays a critical role in producing a high-quality summary from a document. In recent years, neural extractive summarization is becoming increasingly attractive. However, most of them ignore the coherence of summaries when extracting sentences. As an effort towards extracting coherent summaries, we propose a neural coherence model to capture the cross-sentence semantic and syntactic coherence patterns. The proposed neural coherence model obviates the need for feature engineering and can be trained in an end-to-end fashion using unlabeled data. Empirical results show that the proposed neural coherence model can efficiently capture the cross-sentence coherence patterns. Using the combined output of the neural coherence model and ROUGE package as the reward, we design a reinforcement learning method to train a proposed neural extractive summarizer which is named Reinforced Neural Extractive Summarization (RNES) model. The RNES model learns to optimize coherence and informative importance of the summary simultaneously. Experimental results show that the proposed RNES outperforms existing baselines and achieves state-of-the-art performance in term of ROUGE on CNN/Daily Mail dataset. The qualitative evaluation indicates that summaries produced by RNES are more coherent and readable.

___

#### **(#65)** [Mimicking Word Embeddings using Subword RNNs](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D17-1010) (added 2018 April 07 09:19 PM)

`word embedding`, `word`, `mimick`, `embedding`, `distributional`, `oov word`, `improve`, `learning`

Yuval Pinter Robert Guthrie Jacob Eisenstein, Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing

**Abstract:** Word embeddings improve generalization
over lexical features by placing each word
in a lower-dimensional space, using distributional
information obtained from unlabeled
data. However, the effectiveness
of word embeddings for downstream
NLP tasks is limited by out-of-vocabulary
(OOV) words, for which embeddings do
not exist. In this paper, we present MIMICK,
an approach to generating OOV word
embeddings compositionally, by learning
a function from spellings to distributional
embeddings. Unlike prior work, MIMICK
does not require re-training on the original
word embedding corpus; instead, learning
is performed at the type level. Intrinsic
and extrinsic evaluations demonstrate
the power of this simple approach.
On 23 languages, MIMICK improves performance
over a word-based baseline for
tagging part-of-speech and morphosyntactic
attributes. It is competitive with (and
complementary to) a supervised characterbased
model in low-resource settings.



- We approach the problem of out-of-vocabulary (OOV) embeddings as a generation problem: regardless of how the original embeddings were created, we assume there is a generative wordformbased protocol for creating these embeddings. By training a model over the existing vocabulary, we can later use that model for predicting the embedding of an unseen word


___

#### **(#64)** [Prefrontal cortex as a meta-reinforcement learning system](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2018/04/06/295964) (added 2018 April 07 05:19 PM)

`dopamine`, `reward`, `findings`, `learning`, `reward based`, `recent`, `model`, `standard model`

Jane X Wang, Zeb Kurth-Nelson, Dharshan Kumaran, Dhruva Tirumala, Hubert Soyer, Joel Z Leibo, Demis Hassabis, Matthew Botvinick, April 6, 2018.

**Abstract:** Over the past twenty years, neuroscience research on reward-based learning has converged on a canonical model, under which the neurotransmitter dopamine 'stamps in' associations between situations, actions and rewards by modulating the strength of synaptic connections between neurons. However, a growing number of recent findings have placed this standard model under strain. In the present work, we draw on recent advances in artificial intelligence to introduce a new theory of reward-based learning. Here, the dopamine system trains another part of the brain, the prefrontal cortex, to operate as its own free-standing learning system. This new perspective accommodates the findings that motivated the standard model, but also deals gracefully with a wider range of observations, providing a fresh foundation for future research.



- by adjusting the connection weights within the prefrontal network, DA-based RL creates a second RL algorithm, implemented entirely in the prefrontal networks activation dynamics. This new learning algorithm is independent of the original one, and differs in ways that are suited to the task environment. Crucially, the emergent algorithm is a full-fledged RL procedure: It copes with the exploration-exploitation tradeoff37, 38, maintains a representation of the value function1 , and progressively adjusts the action policy

- **a model-based RL alg introduces more temporally dense reward signals, increasing learning rate**

- A prevalent view24 is that the role of the striatum within this cortico-basal ganglia-thalamocortical loop is to regulate the dynamics of PFC by gating the flow of information into PFC circuits

- What might be the relative roles of mesolimbic, mesocortical and nigrostriatal DA pathways, in a meta-RL context?


___

#### **(#63)** [The Kanerva Machine: A Generative Distributed Memory](https://openreview.net/forum?id=S1HlA-ZAZ) (added 2018 April 06 07:42 PM)

`memory`, `distributed`, `train`, `adaptive`, `generates`, `generates model`, `significantly`, `model`

Yan Wu, Greg Wayne, Alex Graves, Timothy Lillicrap, 15 Feb 2018 (modified: 02 Mar 2018)ICLR 2018 Conference Blind Submission

**Abstract:** We present an end-to-end trained memory system that quickly adapts to new data and generates samples like them. Inspired by Kanerva's sparse distributed memory, it has a robust  distributed reading and writing mechanism. The memory is analytically tractable, which enables optimal on-line compression via a Bayesian update-rule. We formulate it as a hierarchical conditional generative model, where memory provides a rich data-dependent prior distribution. Consequently, the top-down memory and bottom-up perception are combined to produce the code representing an observation. Empirically, we demonstrate that the adaptive memory significantly improves generative models trained on both the Omniglot and CIFAR datasets. Compared with the Differentiable Neural Computer (DNC) and its variants, our memory model has greater capacity and is significantly easier to train.



- Our memory architecture can be viewed as an extension of the variational autoencoder where the prior is derived from an adaptive memory store

- An important feature of Kanervas sparse distributed memory is its iterative reading mechanism, by which output from the model is fed back as input for several iterations


___

#### **(#62)** [Unpaired Image-to-Image Translation using Cycle-Consistent Adversarial Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.10593) (added 2018 April 05 07:25 PM)

`image`, `mapping`, `paired`, `learn`, `translate`, `tasks`, `paired training`, `transfer`

Jun-Yan Zhu, Taesung Park, Phillip Isola, Alexei A. Efros, (Submitted on 30 Mar 2017 (v1), last revised 19 Feb 2018 (this version, v4))

**Abstract:** Image-to-image translation is a class of vision and graphics problems where the goal is to learn the mapping between an input image and an output image using a training set of aligned image pairs. However, for many tasks, paired training data will not be available. We present an approach for learning to translate an image from a source domain X to a target domain Y in the absence of paired examples. Our goal is to learn a mapping G:XY such that the distribution of images from G(X) is indistinguishable from the distribution Y using an adversarial loss. Because this mapping is highly under-constrained, we couple it with an inverse mapping F:YX and introduce a cycle consistency loss to push F(G(X))X (and vice versa). Qualitative results are presented on several tasks where paired training data does not exist, including collection style transfer, object transfiguration, season transfer, photo enhancement, etc. Quantitative comparisons against several prior methods demonstrate the superiority of our approach.

___

#### **(#61)** [Charagram: Embedding Words and Sentences via Character n-grams](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.02789) (added 2018 April 05 07:22 PM)

`similarity`, `character`, `charagram embedding`, `embedding`, `tasks`, `sentence`, `word`, `based`

John Wieting, Mohit Bansal, Kevin Gimpel, Karen Livescu, (Submitted on 10 Jul 2016)

**Abstract:** We present Charagram embeddings, a simple approach for learning character-based compositional models to embed textual sequences. A word or sentence is represented using a character n-gram count vector, followed by a single nonlinear transformation to yield a low-dimensional embedding. We use three tasks for evaluation: word similarity, sentence similarity, and part-of-speech tagging. We demonstrate that Charagram embeddings outperform more complex architectures based on character-level recurrent and convolutional neural networks, achieving new state-of-the-art performance on several similarity tasks.

___

#### **(#60)** [Revisiting the Centroid-based Method: A Strong Baseline for Multi-Document Summarization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.07690v1) (added 2018 April 05 04:23 PM)

`summaries`, `sentences`, `document summarization`, `centroid`, `ranking`, `document`, `simple`, `model`

Demian Gholipour Ghalandari, (Submitted on 25 Aug 2017)

**Abstract:** The centroid-based model for extractive document summarization is a simple and fast baseline that ranks sentences based on their similarity to a centroid vector. In this paper, we apply this ranking to possible summaries instead of sentences and use a simple greedy algorithm to find the best summary. Furthermore, we show possi- bilities to scale up to larger input docu- ment collections by selecting a small num- ber of sentences from each document prior to constructing the summary. Experiments were done on the DUC2004 dataset for multi-document summarization. We ob- serve a higher performance over the orig- inal model, on par with more complex state-of-the-art methods.



- To focus on only the most important terms of the input documents, the values in the centroid vector which fall below a tuned threshold are set to zero

- Rossiello et al. (2017) improved the centroidbased method by representing sentences as sums of word embeddings instead of TF-IDF vectors


___

#### **(#59)** [A Semantic QA-Based Approach for Text Summarization Evaluation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.06259v1) (added 2018 April 05 04:21 PM)

`applications`, `text passage`, `content`, `text`, `summarization`, `compare`, `differences`, `existing`

Ping Chen, Fei Wu, Tong Wang, (Submitted on 21 Apr 2017)

**Abstract:** Many Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics applications involves the generation of new texts based on some existing texts, such as summarization, text simplification and machine translation. However, there has been a serious problem haunting these applications for decades, that is, how to automatically and accurately assess quality of these applications. In this paper, we will present some preliminary results on one especially useful and challenging problem in NLP system evaluation: how to pinpoint content differences of two text passages (especially for large pas-sages such as articles and books). Our idea is intuitive and very different from existing approaches. We treat one text passage as a small knowledge base, and ask it a large number of questions to exhaustively identify all content points in it. By comparing the correctly answered questions from two text passages, we will be able to compare their content precisely. The experiment using 2007 DUC summarization corpus clearly shows promising results.



- **main idea: two pieces of text have the same meaning if they answer the same questions**


___

#### **(#58)** [Detecting (Un)Important Content for Single-Document News Summarization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07998v1) (added 2018 April 05 04:14 PM)

`document`, `beginning`, `summarization`, `document summarization`, `outperform`, `approach`, `article baseline`, `single document`

Yinfei Yang, Forrest Sheng Bao, Ani Nenkova, (Submitted on 26 Feb 2017)

**Abstract:** We present a robust approach for detecting intrinsic sentence importance in news, by training on two corpora of document-summary pairs. When used for single-document summarization, our approach, combined with the "beginning of document" heuristic, outperforms a state-of-the-art summarizer and the beginning-of-article baseline in both automatic and manual evaluations. These results represent an important advance because in the absence of cross-document repetition, single document summarizers for news have not been able to consistently outperform the strong beginning-of-article baseline.



- **in Section 3.1, explains how to train using small amount of labelled data and find threshold for locating positive samples in unlabelled data**


___

#### **(#57)** [DisSent: Sentence Representation Learning from Explicit Discourse Relations](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.04334) (added 2018 April 05 04:08 PM)

`sentence`, `model`, `train`, `meaning`, `dataset`, `embedding`, `discourse markers`, `sentence embedding`

Allen Nie, Erin D. Bennett, Noah D. Goodman, (Submitted on 12 Oct 2017)

**Abstract:** Sentence vectors represent an appealing approach to meaning: learn an embedding that encompasses the meaning of a sentence in a single vector, that can be used for a variety of semantic tasks. Existing models for learning sentence embeddings either require extensive computational resources to train on large corpora, or are trained on costly, manually curated datasets of sentence relations. We observe that humans naturally annotate the relations between their sentences with discourse markers like "but" and "because". These words are deeply linked to the meanings of the sentences they connect. Using this natural signal, we automatically collect a classification dataset from unannotated text. Training a model to predict these discourse markers yields high quality sentence embeddings. Our model captures complementary information to existing models and achieves comparable generalization performance to state of the art models.

___

#### **(#56)** [Learning to Ask: Neural Question Generation for Reading Comprehension](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00106) (added 2018 April 05 03:20 PM)

`system`, `evaluation`, `automatic`, `sequence`, `sequence learning`, `sentence`, `answer`, `question generated`

Xinya Du, Junru Shao, Claire Cardie, (Submitted on 29 Apr 2017)

**Abstract:** We study automatic question generation for sentences from text passages in reading comprehension. We introduce an attention-based sequence learning model for the task and investigate the effect of encoding sentence- vs. paragraph-level information. In contrast to all previous work, our model does not rely on hand-crafted rules or a sophisticated NLP pipeline; it is instead trainable end-to-end via sequence-to-sequence learning. Automatic evaluation results show that our system significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art rule-based system. In human evaluations, questions generated by our system are also rated as being more natural (i.e., grammaticality, fluency) and as more difficult to answer (in terms of syntactic and lexical divergence from the original text and reasoning needed to answer).



- investigate the effect of encoding sentence- vs. paragraph-level information

- it would also be interesting to consider to incorporate mechanisms for other language generation tasks (e.g., copy mechanism for dialogue generation) in our model


___

#### **(#55)** [A Semantic Relevance Based Neural Network for Text Summarization and Text Simplification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.02318v1) (added 2018 April 05 03:14 PM)

`text`, `text summarization`, `text simplification`, `model`, `summarization and text`, `semantic relevance`, `summaries`, `similar`

Shuming Ma, Xu Sun, (Submitted on 6 Oct 2017)

**Abstract:** Text summarization and text simplification are two major ways to simplify the text for poor readers, including children, non-native speakers, and the functionally illiterate. Text summarization is to produce a brief summary of the main ideas of the text, while text simplification aims to reduce the linguistic complexity of the text and retain the original meaning. Recently, most approaches for text summarization and text simplification are based on the sequence-to-sequence model, which achieves much success in many text generation tasks. However, although the generated simplified texts are similar to source texts literally, they have low semantic relevance. In this work, our goal is to improve semantic relevance between source texts and simplified texts for text summarization and text simplification. We introduce a Semantic Relevance Based neural model to encourage high semantic similarity between texts and summaries. In our model, the source text is represented by a gated attention encoder, while the summary representation is produced by a decoder. Besides, the similarity score between the representations is maximized during training. Our experiments show that the proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art systems on two benchmark corpus.



- The encoder compresses source texts into semantic vectors, and the decoder generates summaries and produces semantic vectors of the generated summaries. Finally, the similarity function evaluates the relevance between the sematic vectors of source texts and generated summaries. Our training objective is to maximize the similarity score so that the generated summaries have high semantic relevance to source texts


___

#### **(#54)** [The Case for Learned Index Structures](https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.01208) (added 2018 April 05 03:12 PM)

`index`, `model`, `posit`, `key`, `learn`, `existence`, `learn index`, `index structure`

Tim Kraska, Alex Beutel, Ed H. Chi, Jeffrey Dean, Neoklis Polyzotis, (Submitted on 4 Dec 2017 (v1), last revised 11 Dec 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** Indexes are models: a B-Tree-Index can be seen as a model to map a key to the position of a record within a sorted array, a Hash-Index as a model to map a key to a position of a record within an unsorted array, and a BitMap-Index as a model to indicate if a data record exists or not. In this exploratory research paper, we start from this premise and posit that all existing index structures can be replaced with other types of models, including deep-learning models, which we term learned indexes. The key idea is that a model can learn the sort order or structure of lookup keys and use this signal to effectively predict the position or existence of records. We theoretically analyze under which conditions learned indexes outperform traditional index structures and describe the main challenges in designing learned index structures. Our initial results show, that by using neural nets we are able to outperform cache-optimized B-Trees by up to 70% in speed while saving an order-of-magnitude in memory over several real-world data sets. More importantly though, we believe that the idea of replacing core components of a data management system through learned models has far reaching implications for future systems designs and that this work just provides a glimpse of what might be possible.

___

#### **(#53)** [Why Neurons Have Thousands of Synapses, A Theory of Sequence Memory in Neocortex](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.00083) (added 2018 April 05 03:04 PM)

`neuron`, `synapses`, `pattern`, `network`, `propose`, `sequence`, `robust`, `recognize`

Jeff Hawkins, Subutai Ahmad, (Submitted on 31 Oct 2015 (v1), last revised 1 Dec 2015 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** Neocortical neurons have thousands of excitatory synapses. It is a mystery how neurons integrate the input from so many synapses and what kind of large-scale network behavior this enables. It has been previously proposed that non-linear properties of dendrites enable neurons to recognize multiple patterns. In this paper we extend this idea by showing that a neuron with several thousand synapses arranged along active dendrites can learn to accurately and robustly recognize hundreds of unique patterns of cellular activity, even in the presence of large amounts of noise and pattern variation. We then propose a neuron model where some of the patterns recognized by a neuron lead to action potentials and define the classic receptive field of the neuron, whereas the majority of the patterns recognized by a neuron act as predictions by slightly depolarizing the neuron without immediately generating an action potential. We then present a network model based on neurons with these properties and show that the network learns a robust model of time-based sequences. Given the similarity of excitatory neurons throughout the neocortex and the importance of sequence memory in inference and behavior, we propose that this form of sequence memory is a universal property of neocortical tissue. We further propose that cellular layers in the neocortex implement variations of the same sequence memory algorithm to achieve different aspects of inference and behavior. The neuron and network models we introduce are robust over a wide range of parameters as long as the network uses a sparse distributed code of cellular activations. The sequence capacity of the network scales linearly with the number of synapses on each neuron. Thus neurons need thousands of synapses to learn the many temporal patterns in sensory stimuli and motor sequences.



- **learning occurs by growing and removing synapses -- lots of "extra" synapses in case new pattern emerges**

- **Hebbian learning occurs at the level of dendritic segments**


___

#### **(#52)** [Natural Language Processing with Small Feed-Forward Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.00214) (added 2018 April 05 02:51 PM)

`small`, `neural network`, `models`, `memory`, `tradeoffs`, `unstructured`, `allocate`, `recurrent`

Jan A. Botha, Emily Pitler, Ji Ma, Anton Bakalov, Alex Salcianu, David Weiss, Ryan McDonald, Slav Petrov, (Submitted on 1 Aug 2017)

**Abstract:** We show that small and shallow feed-forward neural networks can achieve near state-of-the-art results on a range of unstructured and structured language processing tasks while being considerably cheaper in memory and computational requirements than deep recurrent models. Motivated by resource-constrained environments like mobile phones, we showcase simple techniques for obtaining such small neural network models, and investigate different tradeoffs when deciding how to allocate a small memory budget.



- **main idea: carefully choose word/text embedding and processing method (transition system)**

- **uses random feature mixing to embed ngram bow word vectors**


___

#### **(#51)** [On Characterizing the Capacity of Neural Networks using Algebraic Topology](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.04443) (added 2018 March 31 03:55 PM)

`topological`, `architecture`, `empirical`, `complexity`, `neural network`, `data`, `characterization`, `dataset`

William H. Guss, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, (Submitted on 13 Feb 2018)

**Abstract:** The learnability of different neural architectures can be characterized directly by computable measures of data complexity. In this paper, we reframe the problem of architecture selection as understanding how data determines the most expressive and generalizable architectures suited to that data, beyond inductive bias. After suggesting algebraic topology as a measure for data complexity, we show that the power of a network to express the topological complexity of a dataset in its decision region is a strictly limiting factor in its ability to generalize. We then provide the first empirical characterization of the topological capacity of neural networks. Our empirical analysis shows that at every level of dataset complexity, neural networks exhibit topological phase transitions. This observation allowed us to connect existing theory to empirically driven conjectures on the choice of architectures for fully-connected neural networks.

___

#### **(#50)** [Emergent Tangled Graph Representations for Atari Game Playing Agents](https://web.cs.dal.ca/~mheywood/OpenAccess/open-kelly17a.pdf) (added 2018 March 29 09:28 PM)

`program`, `deep learning`, `tpg`, `learning`, `human`, `game`, `20 game`, `15`

Stephen Kelly, Malcolm I. Heywood, originally appears at EuroGP17

**Abstract:** Organizing code into coherent programs and relating different programs to each other represents an underlying
requirement for scaling genetic programming to more difficult task domains. Assuming a model in which policies
are defined by teams of programs, in which team and program are represented using independent populations
and coevolved, has previously been shown to support the development of variable sized teams. In this work, we
generalize the approach to provide a complete framework for organizing multiple teams into arbitrarily deep/wide
structures through a process of continuous evolution; hereafter the Tangled Program Graph (TPG). Benchmarking
is conducted using a subset of 20 games from the Arcade Learning Environment (ALE), an Atari 2600 video
game emulator. The games considered here correspond to those in which deep learning was unable to reach a
threshold of play consistent with that of a human. Information provided to the learning agent is limited to that
which a human would experience. That is, screen capture sensory input, Atari joystick actions, and game score.
The performance of the proposed approach exceeds that of deep learning in 15 of the 20 games, with 7 of the 15
also exceeding that associated with a human level of competence. Moreover, in contrast to solutions from deep
learning, solutions discovered by TPG are also very sparse. Rather than assuming that all of the state space
contributes to every decision, each action in TPG is resolved following execution of a subset of an individuals
graph. This results in significantly lower computational requirements for model building than presently the case
for deep learning.

___

#### **(#49)** [Ask the Right Questions: Active Question Reformulation with Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.07830) (added 2018 March 28 03:15 PM)

`reformulate`, `question`, `agent`, `answer`, `learned`, `question answer`, `system`, `qa`

Christian Buck, Jannis Bulian, Massimiliano Ciaramita, Wojciech Gajewski, Andrea Gesmundo, Neil Houlsby, Wei Wang, (Submitted on 22 May 2017 (v1), last revised 2 Mar 2018 (this version, v3))

**Abstract:** We frame Question Answering (QA) as a Reinforcement Learning task, an approach that we call Active Question Answering. We propose an agent that sits between the user and a black box QA system and learns to reformulate questions to elicit the best possible answers. The agent probes the system with, potentially many, natural language reformulations of an initial question and aggregates the returned evidence to yield the best answer. The reformulation system is trained end-to-end to maximize answer quality using policy gradient. We evaluate on SearchQA, a dataset of complex questions extracted from Jeopardy!. The agent outperforms a state-of-the-art base model, playing the role of the environment, and other benchmarks. We also analyze the language that the agent has learned while interacting with the question answering system. We find that successful question reformulations look quite different from natural language paraphrases. The agent is able to discover non-trivial reformulation strategies that resemble classic information retrieval techniques such as term re-weighting (tf-idf) and stemming.



- evaluate on a dataset of Jeopardy! questions, SearchQA (Dunn et al., 2017)


___

#### **(#48)** [Neural Models for Key Phrase Detection and Question Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04560v2) (added 2018 March 28 04:07 PM)

`model`, `sequence`, `key phrase`, `approach`, `answer`, `question generated`, `question`, `neural`

Sandeep Subramanian, Tong Wang, Xingdi Yuan, Saizheng Zhang, Adam Trischler, Yoshua Bengio, (Submitted on 14 Jun 2017 (v1), last revised 14 Sep 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** We propose a two-stage neural model to tackle question generation from documents. Our model first estimates the probability that word sequences in a document compose "interesting" answers using a neural model trained on a question-answering corpus. We thus take a data-driven approach to interestingness. Predicted key phrases then act as target answers that condition a sequence-to-sequence question generation model with a copy mechanism. Empirically, our neural key phrase detection model significantly outperforms an entity-tagging baseline system and existing rule-based approaches. We demonstrate that the question generator formulates good quality natural language questions from extracted key phrases, and a human study indicates that our system's generated question-answer pairs are competitive with those of an earlier approach. We foresee our system being used in an educational setting to assess reading comprehension and also as a data augmentation technique for semi-supervised learning.



- question generation typically involves two inter-related components: first, a system to identify interesting entities or events (key phrases) within a passage or document Becker, Basu, and Vanderwende (2012); second, a question generator that constructs questions in natural language that ask specifically about the given key phrases

- **what theoretical properties do these key phrases probably possess? most efficient way of compressing document?**

- **are there any questions that can't be formulated just with slot-filling or templates?**

- We parameterize this model as a pointer network Vinyals, Fortunato, and Jaitly (2015) that is trained to point sequentially to the start and end locations of all key phrase answers

- We conduct our experiments on the SQuAD Rajpurkar et al. (2016) and NewsQA Trischler et al. (2016) corpora. Both of these are machine comprehension datasets consisting of over 100k crowdsourced question-answer pairs

- used bidirectional LSTMs of 256 dimensions (128 forward and backward) to encode the document and an LSTM of 256 dimensions as our decoder in the pointer network model. A dropout of 0.5 was used at the outputs of every layer in the network

- annotators were able to identify the machine generated question-answer pairs 77.8% of the time


___

#### **(#47)** [Learning to Skim Text](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.06877) (added 2018 March 28 04:12 PM)

`read`, `model`, `recurrent`, `jump`, `word`, `text`, `lstm`, `promise`

Adams Wei Yu, Hongrae Lee, Quoc V. Le, (Submitted on 23 Apr 2017 (v1), last revised 29 Apr 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** Recurrent Neural Networks are showing much promise in many sub-areas of natural language processing, ranging from document classification to machine translation to automatic question answering. Despite their promise, many recurrent models have to read the whole text word by word, making it slow to handle long documents. For example, it is difficult to use a recurrent network to read a book and answer questions about it. In this paper, we present an approach of reading text while skipping irrelevant information if needed. The underlying model is a recurrent network that learns how far to jump after reading a few words of the input text. We employ a standard policy gradient method to train the model to make discrete jumping decisions. In our benchmarks on four different tasks, including number prediction, sentiment analysis, news article classification and automatic Q\&A, our proposed model, a modified LSTM with jumping, is up to 6 times faster than the standard sequential LSTM, while maintaining the same or even better accuracy.

___

#### **(#46)** [From Word Embeddings To Document Distances](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~kilian/papers/wmd_metric.pdf) (added 2018 March 28 09:57 PM)

`distance`, `document`, `word`, `wmd`, `metric`, `movers distance`, `embedded`, `document classification`

Matt J. Kusner, Yu Sun, Nicholas I. Kolkin, Kilian Q. Weinberger, Proceedings of the 32 nd International Conference on Machine Learning, Lille, France, 2015

**Abstract:** We present the Word Movers Distance (WMD),
a novel distance function between text documents.
Our work is based on recent results in
word embeddings that learn semantically meaningful
representations for words from local cooccurrences
in sentences. The WMD distance
measures the dissimilarity between two text documents
as the minimum amount of distance that
the embedded words of one document need to
travel to reach the embedded words of another
document. We show that this distance metric can
be cast as an instance of the Earth Movers Distance,
a well studied transportation problem for
which several highly efficient solvers have been
developed. Our metric has no hyperparameters
and is straight-forward to implement. Further, we
demonstrate on eight real world document classification
data sets, in comparison with seven stateof-the-art
baselines, that the WMD metric leads
to unprecedented low k-nearest neighbor document
classification error rates.

___

#### **(#45)** [The Transition to Minimal Consciousness through the Evolution of Associative Learning](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01954/full) (added 2018 March 28 09:53 PM)

`sentience`, `consciousness`, `ual`, `minimal consciousness`, `minimal`, `proposal`, `learning`, `function`

22 December 2016

**Abstract:** The minimal state of consciousness is sentience. This includes any phenomenal sensory experience  exteroceptive, such as vision and olfaction; interoceptive, such as pain and hunger; or proprioceptive, such as the sense of bodily position and movement. We propose unlimited associative learning (UAL) as the marker of the evolutionary transition to minimal consciousness (or sentience), its phylogenetically earliest sustainable manifestation and the driver of its evolution. We define and describe UAL at the behavioral and functional level and argue that the structural-anatomical implementations of this mode of learning in different taxa entail subjective feelings (sentience). We end with a discussion of the implications of our proposal for the distribution of consciousness in the animal kingdom, suggesting testable predictions, and revisiting the ongoing debate about the function of minimal consciousness in light of our approach.

___

#### **(#44)** [OUT-OF-CLASS NOVELTY GENERATION: AN EXPERIMENTAL FOUNDATION](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=ByEPMj5el) (added 2018 March 28 04:35 PM)

`generate`, `creativity`, `model`, `classes`, `machine learning`, `novelty`, `evaluating`, `distribution novelty`

Mehdi Cherti & Balazs K   egl, Akn Kazakc , Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017

**Abstract:** Recent advances in machine learning have brought the field closer to computational
creativity research. From a creativity research point of view, this offers the
potential to study creativity in relationship with knowledge acquisition. From a
machine learning perspective, however, several aspects of creativity need to be
better defined to allow the machine learning community to develop and test hypotheses
in a systematic way. We propose an actionable definition of creativity as
the generation of out-of-distribution novelty. We assess several metrics designed
for evaluating the quality of generative models on this new task. We also propose
a new experimental setup. Inspired by the usual held-out validation, we hold out
entire classes for evaluating the generative potential of models. The goal of the
novelty generator is then to use training classes to build a model that can generate
objects from future (hold-out) classes, unknown at training time - and thus, are
novel with respect to the knowledge the model incorporates. Through extensive
experiments on various types of generative models, we are able to find architectures
and hyperparameter combinations which lead to out-of-distribution novelty.

___

#### **(#43)** [TOWARDS AN AUTOMATIC TURING TEST: LEARNING TO EVALUATE DIALOGUE RESPONSES](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=HJ5PIaseg) (added 2018 March 28 04:32 PM)

`evaluating`, `response`, `model`, `human`, `adem`, `automatic evaluating`, `dialogue`, `correlate`

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017, Ryan Lowe Michael Noseworthy Iulian V. Serban Nicolas Angelard-Gontier Yoshua Bengio Joelle Pineau

**Abstract:** Automatically evaluating the quality of dialogue responses for unstructured domains
is a challenging problem. Unfortunately, existing automatic evaluation
metrics are biased and correlate very poorly with human judgements of response
quality (Liu et al., 2016). Yet having an accurate automatic evaluation procedure
is crucial for dialogue research, as it allows rapid prototyping and testing of new
models with fewer expensive human evaluations. In response to this challenge, we
formulate automatic dialogue evaluation as a learning problem. We present an evaluation
model (ADEM) that learns to predict human-like scores to input responses,
using a new dataset of human response scores. We show that the ADEM models
predictions correlate significantly, and at level much higher than word-overlap metrics
such as BLEU, with human judgements at both the utterance and system-level.
We also show that ADEM can generalize to evaluating dialogue models unseen
during training, an important step for automatic dialogue evaluation

___

#### **(#42)** [Searching for Activation Functions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.05941) (added 2018 March 28 04:10 PM)

`activation function`, `relu`, `swish`, `search`, `swish unit`, `replace relus`, `discover activation`, `discover`

Prajit Ramachandran, Barret Zoph, Quoc V. Le, (Submitted on 16 Oct 2017 (v1), last revised 27 Oct 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** The choice of activation functions in deep networks has a significant effect on the training dynamics and task performance. Currently, the most successful and widely-used activation function is the Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU). Although various hand-designed alternatives to ReLU have been proposed, none have managed to replace it due to inconsistent gains. In this work, we propose to leverage automatic search techniques to discover new activation functions. Using a combination of exhaustive and reinforcement learning-based search, we discover multiple novel activation functions. We verify the effectiveness of the searches by conducting an empirical evaluation with the best discovered activation function. Our experiments show that the best discovered activation function, f(x)=xsigmoid(x), which we name Swish, tends to work better than ReLU on deeper models across a number of challenging datasets. For example, simply replacing ReLUs with Swish units improves top-1 classification accuracy on ImageNet by 0.9\% for Mobile NASNet-A and 0.6\% for Inception-ResNet-v2. The simplicity of Swish and its similarity to ReLU make it easy for practitioners to replace ReLUs with Swish units in any neural network.

___

#### **(#41)** [A Neural Conversational Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.05869) (added 2018 March 28 04:00 PM)

`conversation`, `model`, `dataset`, `domain`, `sentence`, `simple`, `find`, `noisy`

Oriol Vinyals, Quoc Le, (Submitted on 19 Jun 2015 (v1), last revised 22 Jul 2015 (this version, v3))

**Abstract:** Conversational modeling is an important task in natural language understanding and machine intelligence. Although previous approaches exist, they are often restricted to specific domains (e.g., booking an airline ticket) and require hand-crafted rules. In this paper, we present a simple approach for this task which uses the recently proposed sequence to sequence framework. Our model converses by predicting the next sentence given the previous sentence or sentences in a conversation. The strength of our model is that it can be trained end-to-end and thus requires much fewer hand-crafted rules. We find that this straightforward model can generate simple conversations given a large conversational training dataset. Our preliminary results suggest that, despite optimizing the wrong objective function, the model is able to converse well. It is able extract knowledge from both a domain specific dataset, and from a large, noisy, and general domain dataset of movie subtitles. On a domain-specific IT helpdesk dataset, the model can find a solution to a technical problem via conversations. On a noisy open-domain movie transcript dataset, the model can perform simple forms of common sense reasoning. As expected, we also find that the lack of consistency is a common failure mode of our model.

___

#### **(#40)** [sense2vec - A Fast and Accurate Method for Word Sense Disambiguation In Neural Word Embeddings](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.06388) (added 2018 March 28 03:55 PM)

`sense`, `word`, `model`, `embedding`, `disambiguate`, `neural`, `multiple`, `process`

Andrew Trask, Phil Michalak, John Liu, (Submitted on 19 Nov 2015)

**Abstract:** Neural word representations have proven useful in Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks due to their ability to efficiently model complex semantic and syntactic word relationships. However, most techniques model only one representation per word, despite the fact that a single word can have multiple meanings or "senses". Some techniques model words by using multiple vectors that are clustered based on context. However, recent neural approaches rarely focus on the application to a consuming NLP algorithm. Furthermore, the training process of recent word-sense models is expensive relative to single-sense embedding processes. This paper presents a novel approach which addresses these concerns by modeling multiple embeddings for each word based on supervised disambiguation, which provides a fast and accurate way for a consuming NLP model to select a sense-disambiguated embedding. We demonstrate that these embeddings can disambiguate both contrastive senses such as nominal and verbal senses as well as nuanced senses such as sarcasm. We further evaluate Part-of-Speech disambiguated embeddings on neural dependency parsing, yielding a greater than 8% average error reduction in unlabeled attachment scores across 6 languages.

___

#### **(#39)** [Visual Attribute Transfer through Deep Image Analogy](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.01088) (added 2018 March 28 03:54 PM)

`technique`, `transfer`, `style`, `image`, `semantic`, `texture`, `sketch`, `visual attribute`

Jing Liao, Yuan Yao, Lu Yuan, Gang Hua, Sing Bing Kang, (Submitted on 2 May 2017 (v1), last revised 6 Jun 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** We propose a new technique for visual attribute transfer across images that may have very different appearance but have perceptually similar semantic structure. By visual attribute transfer, we mean transfer of visual information (such as color, tone, texture, and style) from one image to another. For example, one image could be that of a painting or a sketch while the other is a photo of a real scene, and both depict the same type of scene. 
Our technique finds semantically-meaningful dense correspondences between two input images. To accomplish this, it adapts the notion of "image analogy" with features extracted from a Deep Convolutional Neutral Network for matching; we call our technique Deep Image Analogy. A coarse-to-fine strategy is used to compute the nearest-neighbor field for generating the results. We validate the effectiveness of our proposed method in a variety of cases, including style/texture transfer, color/style swap, sketch/painting to photo, and time lapse.

___

#### **(#38)** [Feynman Machine: The Universal Dynamical Systems Computer](https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.03971) (added 2018 March 28 03:51 PM)

`computation`, `machine`, `dynamical systems`, `intelligence`, `model`, `mammalian`, `interacting dynamical`, `findings`

Eric Laukien, Richard Crowder, Fergal Byrne, (Submitted on 13 Sep 2016)

**Abstract:** Efforts at understanding the computational processes in the brain have met with limited success, despite their importance and potential uses in building intelligent machines. We propose a simple new model which draws on recent findings in Neuroscience and the Applied Mathematics of interacting Dynamical Systems. The Feynman Machine is a Universal Computer for Dynamical Systems, analogous to the Turing Machine for symbolic computing, but with several important differences. We demonstrate that networks and hierarchies of simple interacting Dynamical Systems, each adaptively learning to forecast its evolution, are capable of automatically building sensorimotor models of the external and internal world. We identify such networks in mammalian neocortex, and show how existing theories of cortical computation combine with our model to explain the power and flexibility of mammalian intelligence. These findings lead directly to new architectures for machine intelligence. A suite of software implementations has been built based on these principles, and applied to a number of spatiotemporal learning tasks.

___

#### **(#37)** [Learning to learn by gradient descent by gradient descent](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04474) (added 2018 March 28 03:16 PM)

`learn`, `algorithm`, `tasks`, `problem`, `design`, `neural`, `optimization algorithm`, `trained`

Marcin Andrychowicz, Misha Denil, Sergio Gomez, Matthew W. Hoffman, David Pfau, Tom Schaul, Brendan Shillingford, Nando de Freitas, (Submitted on 14 Jun 2016 (v1), last revised 30 Nov 2016 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** The move from hand-designed features to learned features in machine learning has been wildly successful. In spite of this, optimization algorithms are still designed by hand. In this paper we show how the design of an optimization algorithm can be cast as a learning problem, allowing the algorithm to learn to exploit structure in the problems of interest in an automatic way. Our learned algorithms, implemented by LSTMs, outperform generic, hand-designed competitors on the tasks for which they are trained, and also generalize well to new tasks with similar structure. We demonstrate this on a number of tasks, including simple convex problems, training neural networks, and styling images with neural art.

___

#### **(#36)** [Learning to reinforcement learn](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.05763) (added 2018 March 28 03:14 PM)

`rl`, `trained`, `learned`, `deep`, `approach`, `recurrent`, `rl algorithm`, `reinforcement learned`

Jane X Wang, Zeb Kurth-Nelson, Dhruva Tirumala, Hubert Soyer, Joel Z Leibo, Remi Munos, Charles Blundell, Dharshan Kumaran, Matt Botvinick, (Submitted on 17 Nov 2016 (v1), last revised 23 Jan 2017 (this version, v3))

**Abstract:** In recent years deep reinforcement learning (RL) systems have attained superhuman performance in a number of challenging task domains. However, a major limitation of such applications is their demand for massive amounts of training data. A critical present objective is thus to develop deep RL methods that can adapt rapidly to new tasks. In the present work we introduce a novel approach to this challenge, which we refer to as deep meta-reinforcement learning. Previous work has shown that recurrent networks can support meta-learning in a fully supervised context. We extend this approach to the RL setting. What emerges is a system that is trained using one RL algorithm, but whose recurrent dynamics implement a second, quite separate RL procedure. This second, learned RL algorithm can differ from the original one in arbitrary ways. Importantly, because it is learned, it is configured to exploit structure in the training domain. We unpack these points in a series of seven proof-of-concept experiments, each of which examines a key aspect of deep meta-RL. We consider prospects for extending and scaling up the approach, and also point out some potentially important implications for neuroscience.

___

#### **(#35)** [A Deep Reinforcement Learning Chatbot](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.02349) (added 2018 March 28 03:13 PM)

`models`, `system`, `learning`, `milabot`, `reinforcement learning`, `ensemble`, `neural network`, `sequence`

Iulian V. Serban, Chinnadhurai Sankar, Mathieu Germain, Saizheng Zhang, Zhouhan Lin, Sandeep Subramanian, Taesup Kim, Michael Pieper, Sarath Chandar, Nan Rosemary Ke, Sai Rajeshwar, Alexandre de Brebisson, Jose M. R. Sotelo, Dendi Suhubdy, Vincent Michalski, Alexandre Nguyen, Joelle Pineau, Yoshua Bengio, (Submitted on 7 Sep 2017 (v1), last revised 5 Nov 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** We present MILABOT: a deep reinforcement learning chatbot developed by the Montreal Institute for Learning Algorithms (MILA) for the Amazon Alexa Prize competition. MILABOT is capable of conversing with humans on popular small talk topics through both speech and text. The system consists of an ensemble of natural language generation and retrieval models, including template-based models, bag-of-words models, sequence-to-sequence neural network and latent variable neural network models. By applying reinforcement learning to crowdsourced data and real-world user interactions, the system has been trained to select an appropriate response from the models in its ensemble. The system has been evaluated through A/B testing with real-world users, where it performed significantly better than many competing systems. Due to its machine learning architecture, the system is likely to improve with additional data.

___

#### **(#34)** [Toward Controlled Generation of Text](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.00955) (added 2018 March 28 05:49 AM)

`attribute`, `generating`, `learning`, `sentence`, `discriminators`, `semantic`, `representations`, `generating model`

Zhiting Hu, Zichao Yang, Xiaodan Liang, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Eric P. Xing, (Submitted on 2 Mar 2017 (v1), last revised 23 Jan 2018 (this version, v3))

**Abstract:** Generic generation and manipulation of text is challenging and has limited success compared to recent deep generative modeling in visual domain. This paper aims at generating plausible natural language sentences, whose attributes are dynamically controlled by learning disentangled latent representations with designated semantics. We propose a new neural generative model which combines variational auto-encoders and holistic attribute discriminators for effective imposition of semantic structures. With differentiable approximation to discrete text samples, explicit constraints on independent attribute controls, and efficient collaborative learning of generator and discriminators, our model learns highly interpretable representations from even only word annotations, and produces realistic sentences with desired attributes. Quantitative evaluation validates the accuracy of sentence and attribute generation.

___

#### **(#33)** [Tacotron: Towards End-to-End Speech Synthesis](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.10135) (added 2018 March 28 05:47 AM)

`speech`, `text`, `tacotron`, `model`, `generates`, `synthesis`, `sequence`, `audio`

Yuxuan Wang, RJ Skerry-Ryan, Daisy Stanton, Yonghui Wu, Ron J. Weiss, Navdeep Jaitly, Zongheng Yang, Ying Xiao, Zhifeng Chen, Samy Bengio, Quoc Le, Yannis Agiomyrgiannakis, Rob Clark, Rif A. Saurous, (Submitted on 29 Mar 2017 (v1), last revised 6 Apr 2017 (this version, v2))

**Abstract:** A text-to-speech synthesis system typically consists of multiple stages, such as a text analysis frontend, an acoustic model and an audio synthesis module. Building these components often requires extensive domain expertise and may contain brittle design choices. In this paper, we present Tacotron, an end-to-end generative text-to-speech model that synthesizes speech directly from characters. Given <text, audio> pairs, the model can be trained completely from scratch with random initialization. We present several key techniques to make the sequence-to-sequence framework perform well for this challenging task. Tacotron achieves a 3.82 subjective 5-scale mean opinion score on US English, outperforming a production parametric system in terms of naturalness. In addition, since Tacotron generates speech at the frame level, it's substantially faster than sample-level autoregressive methods.

___

#### **(#32)** [Machine Learning on Sequential Data Using a Recurrent Weighted Average](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01253) (added 2018 March 28 05:46 AM)

`model`, `symbol`, `rnn`, `rwa`, `processed`, `computational`, `classification`, `rnn architecture`

Jared Ostmeyer, Lindsay Cowell, (Submitted on 3 Mar 2017 (v1), last revised 4 May 2017 (this version, v5))

**Abstract:** Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) are a type of statistical model designed to handle sequential data. The model reads a sequence one symbol at a time. Each symbol is processed based on information collected from the previous symbols. With existing RNN architectures, each symbol is processed using only information from the previous processing step. To overcome this limitation, we propose a new kind of RNN model that computes a recurrent weighted average (RWA) over every past processing step. Because the RWA can be computed as a running average, the computational overhead scales like that of any other RNN architecture. The approach essentially reformulates the attention mechanism into a stand-alone model. The performance of the RWA model is assessed on the variable copy problem, the adding problem, classification of artificial grammar, classification of sequences by length, and classification of the MNIST images (where the pixels are read sequentially one at a time). On almost every task, the RWA model is found to outperform a standard LSTM model.

___

#### **(#31)** [Representing Sentences as Low-Rank Subspaces](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.05358v1) (added 2018 March 28 05:44 AM)

`sentence`, `semantic`, `representation`, `word`, `datasets`, `vectors`, `rank subspace`, `observation`

Jiaqi Mu, Suma Bhat, Pramod Viswanath, (Submitted on 18 Apr 2017)

**Abstract:** Sentences are important semantic units of natural language. A generic, distributional representation of sentences that can capture the latent semantics is beneficial to multiple downstream applications. We observe a simple geometry of sentences -- the word representations of a given sentence (on average 10.23 words in all SemEval datasets with a standard deviation 4.84) roughly lie in a low-rank subspace (roughly, rank 4). Motivated by this observation, we represent a sentence by the low-rank subspace spanned by its word vectors. Such an unsupervised representation is empirically validated via semantic textual similarity tasks on 19 different datasets, where it outperforms the sophisticated neural network models, including skip-thought vectors, by 15% on average.

___

#### **(#30)** [Affect-LM: A Neural Language Model for Customizable Affective Text Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.06851) (added 2018 March 28 05:43 AM)

`affect`, `affect lm`, `emotional`, `generated`, `language model`, `conversational text`, `propose`, `sentences`

Sayan Ghosh, Mathieu Chollet, Eugene Laksana, Louis-Philippe Morency, Stefan Scherer, (Submitted on 22 Apr 2017)

**Abstract:** Human verbal communication includes affective messages which are conveyed through use of emotionally colored words. There has been a lot of research in this direction but the problem of integrating state-of-the-art neural language models with affective information remains an area ripe for exploration. In this paper, we propose an extension to an LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory) language model for generating conversational text, conditioned on affect categories. Our proposed model, Affect-LM enables us to customize the degree of emotional content in generated sentences through an additional design parameter. Perception studies conducted using Amazon Mechanical Turk show that Affect-LM generates naturally looking emotional sentences without sacrificing grammatical correctness. Affect-LM also learns affect-discriminative word representations, and perplexity experiments show that additional affective information in conversational text can improve language model prediction.

___

#### **(#29)** [The More You Know: Using Knowledge Graphs for Image Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04844) (added 2018 March 28 05:40 AM)

`knowledge`, `learn`, `graph`, `classification`, `characteristic`, `neural network`, `knowledge graph`, `vision`

Kenneth Marino, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Abhinav Gupta, Submitted on 14 Dec 2016 (v1), last revised 22 Apr 2017 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** One characteristic that sets humans apart from modern learning-based computer vision algorithms is the ability to acquire knowledge about the world and use that knowledge to reason about the visual world. Humans can learn about the characteristics of objects and the relationships that occur between them to learn a large variety of visual concepts, often with few examples. This paper investigates the use of structured prior knowledge in the form of knowledge graphs and shows that using this knowledge improves performance on image classification. We build on recent work on end-to-end learning on graphs, introducing the Graph Search Neural Network as a way of efficiently incorporating large knowledge graphs into a vision classification pipeline. We show in a number of experiments that our method outperforms standard neural network baselines for multi-label classification.

___

#### **(#28)** [Generative Temporal Models with Memory](https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.04649) (added 2018 March 28 05:39 AM)

`model`, `temporal`, `predict`, `elements`, `dependencies`, `unpredictable elements`, `observations`, `temporal model`

Mevlana Gemici, Chia-Chun Hung, Adam Santoro, Greg Wayne, Shakir Mohamed, Danilo J. Rezende, David Amos, Timothy Lillicrap, Submitted on 15 Feb 2017 (v1), last revised 21 Feb 2017 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** We consider the general problem of modeling temporal data with long-range dependencies, wherein new observations are fully or partially predictable based on temporally-distant, past observations. A sufficiently powerful temporal model should separate predictable elements of the sequence from unpredictable elements, express uncertainty about those unpredictable elements, and rapidly identify novel elements that may help to predict the future. To create such models, we introduce Generative Temporal Models augmented with external memory systems. They are developed within the variational inference framework, which provides both a practical training methodology and methods to gain insight into the models' operation. We show, on a range of problems with sparse, long-term temporal dependencies, that these models store information from early in a sequence, and reuse this stored information efficiently. This allows them to perform substantially better than existing models based on well-known recurrent neural networks, like LSTMs.

___

#### **(#27)** [Multi-step Reinforcement Learning: A Unifying Algorithm](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01327) (added 2018 March 28 05:37 AM)

`algorithm`, `perform`, `step`, `unifies`, `td`, `learning`, `case`, `sarsa`

Kristopher De Asis, J. Fernando Hernandez-Garcia, G. Zacharias Holland, Richard S. Sutton, Submitted on 3 Mar 2017

**Abstract:** Unifying seemingly disparate algorithmic ideas to produce better performing algorithms has been a longstanding goal in reinforcement learning. As a primary example, TD() elegantly unifies one-step TD prediction with Monte Carlo methods through the use of eligibility traces and the trace-decay parameter . Currently, there are a multitude of algorithms that can be used to perform TD control, including Sarsa, Q-learning, and Expected Sarsa. These methods are often studied in the one-step case, but they can be extended across multiple time steps to achieve better performance. Each of these algorithms is seemingly distinct, and no one dominates the others for all problems. In this paper, we study a new multi-step action-value algorithm called Q() which unifies and generalizes these existing algorithms, while subsuming them as special cases. A new parameter, , is introduced to allow the degree of sampling performed by the algorithm at each step during its backup to be continuously varied, with Sarsa existing at one extreme (full sampling), and Expected Sarsa existing at the other (pure expectation). Q() is generally applicable to both on- and off-policy learning, but in this work we focus on experiments in the on-policy case. Our results show that an intermediate value of , which results in a mixture of the existing algorithms, performs better than either extreme. The mixture can also be varied dynamically which can result in even greater performance.

___

#### **(#26)** [Distilling the Knowledge in a Neural Network](https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.02531) (added 2018 March 28 05:35 AM)

`model`, `ensemble`, `compress`, `deploy`, `predictions`, `learn`, `specialist model`, `improve`

Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, Jeff Dean, Submitted on 9 Mar 2015

**Abstract:** A very simple way to improve the performance of almost any machine learning algorithm is to train many different models on the same data and then to average their predictions. Unfortunately, making predictions using a whole ensemble of models is cumbersome and may be too computationally expensive to allow deployment to a large number of users, especially if the individual models are large neural nets. Caruana and his collaborators have shown that it is possible to compress the knowledge in an ensemble into a single model which is much easier to deploy and we develop this approach further using a different compression technique. We achieve some surprising results on MNIST and we show that we can significantly improve the acoustic model of a heavily used commercial system by distilling the knowledge in an ensemble of models into a single model. We also introduce a new type of ensemble composed of one or more full models and many specialist models which learn to distinguish fine-grained classes that the full models confuse. Unlike a mixture of experts, these specialist models can be trained rapidly and in parallel.

___

#### **(#25)** [Overcoming catastrophic forgetting in neural networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00796) (added 2018 March 28 05:32 AM)

`tasks`, `learn`, `sequential`, `networks`, `approach`, `2600`, `connectionist`, `mnist`

James Kirkpatrick, Razvan Pascanu, Neil Rabinowitz, Joel Veness, Guillaume Desjardins, Andrei A. Rusu, Kieran Milan, John Quan, Tiago Ramalho, Agnieszka Grabska-Barwinska, Demis Hassabis, Claudia Clopath, Dharshan Kumaran, Raia Hadsell, Submitted on 2 Dec 2016 (v1), last revised 25 Jan 2017 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** The ability to learn tasks in a sequential fashion is crucial to the development of artificial intelligence. Neural networks are not, in general, capable of this and it has been widely thought that catastrophic forgetting is an inevitable feature of connectionist models. We show that it is possible to overcome this limitation and train networks that can maintain expertise on tasks which they have not experienced for a long time. Our approach remembers old tasks by selectively slowing down learning on the weights important for those tasks. We demonstrate our approach is scalable and effective by solving a set of classification tasks based on the MNIST hand written digit dataset and by learning several Atari 2600 games sequentially.

___

#### **(#24)** [PixelCNN Models with Auxiliary Variables for Natural Image Modeling](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08185) (added 2018 March 28 05:30 AM)

`image`, `models`, `pixelcnn`, `probabilistic models`, `auxiliary variables`, `image samples`, `proposed models`, `level image`

Alexander Kolesnikov, Christoph H. Lampert, Submitted on 24 Dec 2016 (v1), last revised 1 Jul 2017 (this version, v4)

**Abstract:** We study probabilistic models of natural images and extend the autoregressive family of PixelCNN architectures by incorporating auxiliary variables. Subsequently, we describe two new generative image models that exploit different image transformations as auxiliary variables: a quantized grayscale view of the image or a multi-resolution image pyramid. The proposed models tackle two known shortcomings of existing PixelCNN models: 1) their tendency to focus on low-level image details, while largely ignoring high-level image information, such as object shapes, and 2) their computationally costly procedure for image sampling. We experimentally demonstrate benefits of the proposed models, in particular showing that they produce much more realistically looking image samples than previous state-of-the-art probabilistic models.

___

#### **(#23)** [Bidirectional Attention Flow for Machine Comprehension](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01603) (added 2018 March 28 05:19 AM)

`context`, `query`, `directional attention`, `attention`, `summarization`, `answering`, `bi directional`, `mc`

Minjoon Seo, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Ali Farhadi, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Submitted on 5 Nov 2016 (v1), last revised 24 Feb 2017 (this version, v5)

**Abstract:** Machine comprehension (MC), answering a query about a given context paragraph, requires modeling complex interactions between the context and the query. Recently, attention mechanisms have been successfully extended to MC. Typically these methods use attention to focus on a small portion of the context and summarize it with a fixed-size vector, couple attentions temporally, and/or often form a uni-directional attention. In this paper we introduce the Bi-Directional Attention Flow (BIDAF) network, a multi-stage hierarchical process that represents the context at different levels of granularity and uses bi-directional attention flow mechanism to obtain a query-aware context representation without early summarization. Our experimental evaluations show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art results in Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) and CNN/DailyMail cloze test.

___

#### **(#22)** [Convolutional Neural Fabrics](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.02492v4) (added 2018 March 28 04:58 AM)

`fabric`, `architecture`, `connectivity`, `paths`, `scales`, `layers`, `parameters`, `optimal architecture`

Shreyas Saxena, Jakob Verbeek, Submitted on 8 Jun 2016 (v1), last revised 30 Jan 2017 (this version, v4)

**Abstract:** Despite the success of CNNs, selecting the optimal architecture for a given task remains an open problem. Instead of aiming to select a single optimal architecture, we propose a "fabric" that embeds an exponentially large number of architectures. The fabric consists of a 3D trellis that connects response maps at different layers, scales, and channels with a sparse homogeneous local connectivity pattern. The only hyper-parameters of a fabric are the number of channels and layers. While individual architectures can be recovered as paths, the fabric can in addition ensemble all embedded architectures together, sharing their weights where their paths overlap. Parameters can be learned using standard methods based on back-propagation, at a cost that scales linearly in the fabric size. We present benchmark results competitive with the state of the art for image classification on MNIST and CIFAR10, and for semantic segmentation on the Part Labels dataset.

___

#### **(#21)** [Strategic Attentive Writer for Learning Macro-Actions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04695) (added 2018 March 28 04:53 AM)

`learn`, `plan`, `straw`, `macro actions`, `temporally`, `prediction`, `demonstrate`, `end`

Alexander (Sasha) Vezhnevets, Volodymyr Mnih, John Agapiou, Simon Osindero, Alex Graves, Oriol Vinyals, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Submitted on 15 Jun 2016

**Abstract:** We present a novel deep recurrent neural network architecture that learns to build implicit plans in an end-to-end manner by purely interacting with an environment in reinforcement learning setting. The network builds an internal plan, which is continuously updated upon observation of the next input from the environment. It can also partition this internal representation into contiguous sub- sequences by learning for how long the plan can be committed to - i.e. followed without re-planing. Combining these properties, the proposed model, dubbed STRategic Attentive Writer (STRAW) can learn high-level, temporally abstracted macro- actions of varying lengths that are solely learnt from data without any prior information. These macro-actions enable both structured exploration and economic computation. We experimentally demonstrate that STRAW delivers strong improvements on several ATARI games by employing temporally extended planning strategies (e.g. Ms. Pacman and Frostbite). It is at the same time a general algorithm that can be applied on any sequence data. To that end, we also show that when trained on text prediction task, STRAW naturally predicts frequent n-grams (instead of macro-actions), demonstrating the generality of the approach.

___

#### **(#20)** [Pointer Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.03134) (added 2018 March 28 04:28 AM)

`sequence`, `problem`, `attention`, `neural`, `ptr net`, `input`, `output`, `learn`

Oriol Vinyals, Meire Fortunato, Navdeep Jaitly, Submitted on 9 Jun 2015 (v1), last revised 2 Jan 2017 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** We introduce a new neural architecture to learn the conditional probability of an output sequence with elements that are discrete tokens corresponding to positions in an input sequence. Such problems cannot be trivially addressed by existent approaches such as sequence-to-sequence and Neural Turing Machines, because the number of target classes in each step of the output depends on the length of the input, which is variable. Problems such as sorting variable sized sequences, and various combinatorial optimization problems belong to this class. Our model solves the problem of variable size output dictionaries using a recently proposed mechanism of neural attention. It differs from the previous attention attempts in that, instead of using attention to blend hidden units of an encoder to a context vector at each decoder step, it uses attention as a pointer to select a member of the input sequence as the output. We call this architecture a Pointer Net (Ptr-Net). We show Ptr-Nets can be used to learn approximate solutions to three challenging geometric problems -- finding planar convex hulls, computing Delaunay triangulations, and the planar Travelling Salesman Problem -- using training examples alone. Ptr-Nets not only improve over sequence-to-sequence with input attention, but also allow us to generalize to variable size output dictionaries. We show that the learnt models generalize beyond the maximum lengths they were trained on. We hope our results on these tasks will encourage a broader exploration of neural learning for discrete problems.

___

#### **(#19)** [On Learning to Think: Algorithmic Information Theory for Novel Combinations of Reinforcement Learning Controllers and Recurrent Neural World Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.09249) (added 2018 March 28 04:23 AM)

`learn`, `rnnai`, `model`, `rnn based`, `rl`, `rnn`, `abstract`, `reasoning`

Submitted on 30 Nov 2015

**Abstract:** This paper addresses the general problem of reinforcement learning (RL) in partially observable environments. In 2013, our large RL recurrent neural networks (RNNs) learned from scratch to drive simulated cars from high-dimensional video input. However, real brains are more powerful in many ways. In particular, they learn a predictive model of their initially unknown environment, and somehow use it for abstract (e.g., hierarchical) planning and reasoning. Guided by algorithmic information theory, we describe RNN-based AIs (RNNAIs) designed to do the same. Such an RNNAI can be trained on never-ending sequences of tasks, some of them provided by the user, others invented by the RNNAI itself in a curious, playful fashion, to improve its RNN-based world model. Unlike our previous model-building RNN-based RL machines dating back to 1990, the RNNAI learns to actively query its model for abstract reasoning and planning and decision making, essentially "learning to think." The basic ideas of this report can be applied to many other cases where one RNN-like system exploits the algorithmic information content of another. They are taken from a grant proposal submitted in Fall 2014, and also explain concepts such as "mirror neurons." Experimental results will be described in separate papers.

___

#### **(#18)** [On the Expressive Power of Deep Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.05336v6) (added 2018 March 28 04:22 AM)

`network`, `expressivity`, `regularization`, `trajectory`, `compute`, `weights`, `trajectory length`, `neural network`

Submitted on 16 Jun 2016 (v1), last revised 18 Jun 2017 (this version, v6)

**Abstract:** We propose a new approach to the problem of neural network expressivity, which seeks to characterize how structural properties of a neural network family affect the functions it is able to compute. Our approach is based on an interrelated set of measures of expressivity, unified by the novel notion of trajectory length, which measures how the output of a network changes as the input sweeps along a one-dimensional path. Our findings can be summarized as follows: 
(1) The complexity of the computed function grows exponentially with depth. 
(2) All weights are not equal: trained networks are more sensitive to their lower (initial) layer weights. 
(3) Regularizing on trajectory length (trajectory regularization) is a simpler alternative to batch normalization, with the same performance.

___

#### **(#17)** [Xception: Deep Learning with Depthwise Separable Convolutions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.02357) (added 2018 March 28 04:20 AM)

`convolution`, `inception v3`, `inception`, `depthwise separable convolution`, `inception module`, `architecture`, `outperforms inception`, `xception`

Submitted on 7 Oct 2016 (v1), last revised 4 Apr 2017 (this version, v3)

**Abstract:** We present an interpretation of Inception modules in convolutional neural networks as being an intermediate step in-between regular convolution and the depthwise separable convolution operation (a depthwise convolution followed by a pointwise convolution). In this light, a depthwise separable convolution can be understood as an Inception module with a maximally large number of towers. This observation leads us to propose a novel deep convolutional neural network architecture inspired by Inception, where Inception modules have been replaced with depthwise separable convolutions. We show that this architecture, dubbed Xception, slightly outperforms Inception V3 on the ImageNet dataset (which Inception V3 was designed for), and significantly outperforms Inception V3 on a larger image classification dataset comprising 350 million images and 17,000 classes. Since the Xception architecture has the same number of parameters as Inception V3, the performance gains are not due to increased capacity but rather to a more efficient use of model parameters.

___

#### **(#16)** [Reasoning with Memory Augmented Neural Networks for Language Comprehension](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.06454v2) (added 2018 March 28 04:18 AM)

`hypothesis test`, `approach`, `test`, `nse`, `comprehension`, `neural`, `hypothesis`, `previous`

Submitted on 20 Oct 2016 (v1), last revised 28 Feb 2017 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** Hypothesis testing is an important cognitive process that supports human reasoning. In this paper, we introduce a computational hypothesis testing approach based on memory augmented neural networks. Our approach involves a hypothesis testing loop that reconsiders and progressively refines a previously formed hypothesis in order to generate new hypotheses to test. We apply the proposed approach to language comprehension task by using Neural Semantic Encoders (NSE). Our NSE models achieve the state-of-the-art results showing an absolute improvement of 1.2% to 2.6% accuracy over previous results obtained by single and ensemble systems on standard machine comprehension benchmarks such as the Children's Book Test (CBT) and Who-Did-What (WDW) news article datasets.

___

#### **(#15)** [Neural Networks with Few Multiplications](https://arxiv.org/abs/1510.03009) (added 2018 March 28 04:05 AM)

`training`, `multiplications`, `binarize`, `stochastic`, `computation`, `weights`, `neural networks`, `convert`

Submitted on 11 Oct 2015 (v1), last revised 26 Feb 2016 (this version, v3)

**Abstract:** For most deep learning algorithms training is notoriously time consuming. Since most of the computation in training neural networks is typically spent on floating point multiplications, we investigate an approach to training that eliminates the need for most of these. Our method consists of two parts: First we stochastically binarize weights to convert multiplications involved in computing hidden states to sign changes. Second, while back-propagating error derivatives, in addition to binarizing the weights, we quantize the representations at each layer to convert the remaining multiplications into binary shifts. Experimental results across 3 popular datasets (MNIST, CIFAR10, SVHN) show that this approach not only does not hurt classification performance but can result in even better performance than standard stochastic gradient descent training, paving the way to fast, hardware-friendly training of neural networks.

___

#### **(#14)** [Memory Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3916) (added 2018 March 28 04:04 AM)

`models`, `long term memory`, `qa`, `component`, `learn`, `memory networks`, `task`, `memory`

Submitted on 15 Oct 2014 (v1), last revised 29 Nov 2015 (this version, v11)

**Abstract:** We describe a new class of learning models called memory networks. Memory networks reason with inference components combined with a long-term memory component; they learn how to use these jointly. The long-term memory can be read and written to, with the goal of using it for prediction. We investigate these models in the context of question answering (QA) where the long-term memory effectively acts as a (dynamic) knowledge base, and the output is a textual response. We evaluate them on a large-scale QA task, and a smaller, but more complex, toy task generated from a simulated world. In the latter, we show the reasoning power of such models by chaining multiple supporting sentences to answer questions that require understanding the intension of verbs.

___

#### **(#13)** [InfoGAN: Interpretable Representation Learning by Information Maximizing Generative Adversarial Nets](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.03657) (added 2018 March 28 04:03 AM)

`infogan`, `dataset`, `representations`, `digit`, `learn`, `disentangled`, `interpretable`, `generative adversarial`

Submitted on 12 Jun 2016

**Abstract:** This paper describes InfoGAN, an information-theoretic extension to the Generative Adversarial Network that is able to learn disentangled representations in a completely unsupervised manner. InfoGAN is a generative adversarial network that also maximizes the mutual information between a small subset of the latent variables and the observation. We derive a lower bound to the mutual information objective that can be optimized efficiently, and show that our training procedure can be interpreted as a variation of the Wake-Sleep algorithm. Specifically, InfoGAN successfully disentangles writing styles from digit shapes on the MNIST dataset, pose from lighting of 3D rendered images, and background digits from the central digit on the SVHN dataset. It also discovers visual concepts that include hair styles, presence/absence of eyeglasses, and emotions on the CelebA face dataset. Experiments show that InfoGAN learns interpretable representations that are competitive with representations learned by existing fully supervised methods.

___

#### **(#12)** [On Multiplicative Integration with Recurrent Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.06630) (added 2018 March 28 03:59 AM)

`rnn models`, `rnn`, `multiplicative integrated`, `introduce`, `structural`, `integrated`, `mi`, `difference`

Submitted on 21 Jun 2016 (v1), last revised 12 Nov 2016 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** We introduce a general and simple structural design called Multiplicative Integration (MI) to improve recurrent neural networks (RNNs). MI changes the way in which information from difference sources flows and is integrated in the computational building block of an RNN, while introducing almost no extra parameters. The new structure can be easily embedded into many popular RNN models, including LSTMs and GRUs. We empirically analyze its learning behaviour and conduct evaluations on several tasks using different RNN models. Our experimental results demonstrate that Multiplicative Integration can provide a substantial performance boost over many of the existing RNN models.

___

#### **(#11)** [Stacked Hourglass Networks for Human Pose Estimation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.06937v2) (added 2018 March 28 03:55 AM)

`network`, `processed`, `architecture`, `mpii`, `outcompeting`, `convolutional`, `upsampling`, `flic`

Submitted on 22 Mar 2016 (v1), last revised 26 Jul 2016 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** This work introduces a novel convolutional network architecture for the task of human pose estimation. Features are processed across all scales and consolidated to best capture the various spatial relationships associated with the body. We show how repeated bottom-up, top-down processing used in conjunction with intermediate supervision is critical to improving the performance of the network. We refer to the architecture as a "stacked hourglass" network based on the successive steps of pooling and upsampling that are done to produce a final set of predictions. State-of-the-art results are achieved on the FLIC and MPII benchmarks outcompeting all recent methods.

___

#### **(#10)** [Learning to Understand Phrases by Embedding the Dictionary](https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.00548) (added 2018 March 28 03:50 AM)

`definition`, `lexical`, `dictionaries`, `representations`, `phrases`, `trained`, `models`, `architectures`

Submitted on 2 Apr 2015 (v1), last revised 22 Mar 2016 (this version, v4)

**Abstract:** Distributional models that learn rich semantic word representations are a success story of recent NLP research. However, developing models that learn useful representations of phrases and sentences has proved far harder. We propose using the definitions found in everyday dictionaries as a means of bridging this gap between lexical and phrasal semantics. Neural language embedding models can be effectively trained to map dictionary definitions (phrases) to (lexical) representations of the words defined by those definitions. We present two applications of these architectures: "reverse dictionaries" that return the name of a concept given a definition or description and general-knowledge crossword question answerers. On both tasks, neural language embedding models trained on definitions from a handful of freely-available lexical resources perform as well or better than existing commercial systems that rely on significant task-specific engineering. The results highlight the effectiveness of both neural embedding architectures and definition-based training for developing models that understand phrases and sentences.

___

#### **(#9)** [End-To-End Memory Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.08895) (added 2018 March 28 03:49 AM)

`model`, `hops`, `multiple computational`, `trained`, `less supervision`, `memory`, `approach`, `memory network`

Submitted on 31 Mar 2015 (v1), last revised 24 Nov 2015 (this version, v5)

**Abstract:** We introduce a neural network with a recurrent attention model over a possibly large external memory. The architecture is a form of Memory Network (Weston et al., 2015) but unlike the model in that work, it is trained end-to-end, and hence requires significantly less supervision during training, making it more generally applicable in realistic settings. It can also be seen as an extension of RNNsearch to the case where multiple computational steps (hops) are performed per output symbol. The flexibility of the model allows us to apply it to tasks as diverse as (synthetic) question answering and to language modeling. For the former our approach is competitive with Memory Networks, but with less supervision. For the latter, on the Penn TreeBank and Text8 datasets our approach demonstrates comparable performance to RNNs and LSTMs. In both cases we show that the key concept of multiple computational hops yields improved results.

___

#### **(#8)** [Neural Language Correction with Character-Based Attention](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.09727v1) (added 2018 March 28 03:46 AM)

`error`, `approach`, `method`, `network`, `language`, `learner`, `flexibility`, `neural`

Submitted on 31 Mar 2016

**Abstract:** Natural language correction has the potential to help language learners improve their writing skills. While approaches with separate classifiers for different error types have high precision, they do not flexibly handle errors such as redundancy or non-idiomatic phrasing. On the other hand, word and phrase-based machine translation methods are not designed to cope with orthographic errors, and have recently been outpaced by neural models. Motivated by these issues, we present a neural network-based approach to language correction. The core component of our method is an encoder-decoder recurrent neural network with an attention mechanism. By operating at the character level, the network avoids the problem of out-of-vocabulary words. We illustrate the flexibility of our approach on dataset of noisy, user-generated text collected from an English learner forum. When combined with a language model, our method achieves a state-of-the-art F0.5-score on the CoNLL 2014 Shared Task. We further demonstrate that training the network on additional data with synthesized errors can improve performance.

___

#### **(#7)** [Masked Autoregressive Flow for Density Estimation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.07057) (added 2018 March 28 03:40 AM)

`model`, `autoregressive model`, `autoregressive flow`, `density estimation`, `flow`, `masked autoregressive`, `stack`, `random numbers`

last revised 11 Jan 2018 (this version, v3)

**Abstract:** Autoregressive models are among the best performing neural density estimators. We describe an approach for increasing the flexibility of an autoregressive model, based on modelling the random numbers that the model uses internally when generating data. By constructing a stack of autoregressive models, each modelling the random numbers of the next model in the stack, we obtain a type of normalizing flow suitable for density estimation, which we call Masked Autoregressive Flow. This type of flow is closely related to Inverse Autoregressive Flow and is a generalization of Real NVP. Masked Autoregressive Flow achieves state-of-the-art performance in a range of general-purpose density estimation tasks.

___

#### **(#6)** [Neural Discrete Representation Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.00937) (added 2018 March 28 03:37 AM)

`representation`, `learn`, `model`, `vae`, `vq`, `discrete`, `vector quantisation`, `autoregressive`

Submitted on 2 Nov 2017

**Abstract:** Learning useful representations without supervision remains a key challenge in machine learning. In this paper, we propose a simple yet powerful generative model that learns such discrete representations. Our model, the Vector Quantised-Variational AutoEncoder (VQ-VAE), differs from VAEs in two key ways: the encoder network outputs discrete, rather than continuous, codes; and the prior is learnt rather than static. In order to learn a discrete latent representation, we incorporate ideas from vector quantisation (VQ). Using the VQ method allows the model to circumvent issues of "posterior collapse" -- where the latents are ignored when they are paired with a powerful autoregressive decoder -- typically observed in the VAE framework. Pairing these representations with an autoregressive prior, the model can generate high quality images, videos, and speech as well as doing high quality speaker conversion and unsupervised learning of phonemes, providing further evidence of the utility of the learnt representations.

___

#### **(#5)** [Deep Voice 3: Scaling Text-to-Speech with Convolutional Sequence Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.07654v3) (added 2018 March 28 03:36 AM)

`deep voice 3`, `tts`, `neural`, `synthesis`, `speech synthesis`, `speech`, `scale`, `ten`

last revised 22 Feb 2018 (this version, v3)

**Abstract:** We present Deep Voice 3, a fully-convolutional attention-based neural text-to-speech (TTS) system. Deep Voice 3 matches state-of-the-art neural speech synthesis systems in naturalness while training ten times faster. We scale Deep Voice 3 to data set sizes unprecedented for TTS, training on more than eight hundred hours of audio from over two thousand speakers. In addition, we identify common error modes of attention-based speech synthesis networks, demonstrate how to mitigate them, and compare several different waveform synthesis methods. We also describe how to scale inference to ten million queries per day on one single-GPU server.

___

#### **(#4)** [From neural PCA to deep unsupervised learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.7783) (added 2018 March 28 03:29 AM)

`network`, `learn`, `autoencoder`, `hierarchy`, `layer`, `level`, `denoising`, `encoder`

Submitted on 28 Nov 2014 (v1), last revised 2 Feb 2015 (this version, v2)

**Abstract:** A network supporting deep unsupervised learning is presented. The network is an autoencoder with lateral shortcut connections from the encoder to decoder at each level of the hierarchy. The lateral shortcut connections allow the higher levels of the hierarchy to focus on abstract invariant features. While standard autoencoders are analogous to latent variable models with a single layer of stochastic variables, the proposed network is analogous to hierarchical latent variables models. Learning combines denoising autoencoder and denoising sources separation frameworks. Each layer of the network contributes to the cost function a term which measures the distance of the representations produced by the encoder and the decoder. Since training signals originate from all levels of the network, all layers can learn efficiently even in deep networks. The speedup offered by cost terms from higher levels of the hierarchy and the ability to learn invariant features are demonstrated in experiments.

___

#### **(#3)** [A Convolutional Neural Network for Modelling Sentences](https://arxiv.org/abs/1404.2188v1) (added 2018 March 28 03:27 AM)

`network`, `sentence`, `convolutional`, `dcnn`, `pooling`, `sentiment prediction`, `dynamic`, `task`

Submitted on 8 Apr 2014

**Abstract:** The ability to accurately represent sentences is central to language understanding. We describe a convolutional architecture dubbed the Dynamic Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN) that we adopt for the semantic modelling of sentences. The network uses Dynamic k-Max Pooling, a global pooling operation over linear sequences. The network handles input sentences of varying length and induces a feature graph over the sentence that is capable of explicitly capturing short and long-range relations. The network does not rely on a parse tree and is easily applicable to any language. We test the DCNN in four experiments: small scale binary and multi-class sentiment prediction, six-way question classification and Twitter sentiment prediction by distant supervision. The network achieves excellent performance in the first three tasks and a greater than 25% error reduction in the last task with respect to the strongest baseline.

___

#### **(#2)** [A Hierarchical Neural Autoencoder for Paragraphs and Documents](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.01057) (added 2018 March 28 03:21 AM)

`paragraph`, `model`, `embedding`, `coherence`, `reconstruct`, `generating`, `text`, `lstm`

6 Jun 2015

**Abstract:** Natural language generation of coherent long texts like paragraphs or longer documents is a challenging problem for recurrent networks models. In this paper, we explore an important step toward this generation task: training an LSTM (Long-short term memory) auto-encoder to preserve and reconstruct multi-sentence paragraphs. We introduce an LSTM model that hierarchically builds an embedding for a paragraph from embeddings for sentences and words, then decodes this embedding to reconstruct the original paragraph. We evaluate the reconstructed paragraph using standard metrics like ROUGE and Entity Grid, showing that neural models are able to encode texts in a way that preserve syntactic, semantic, and discourse coherence. While only a first step toward generating coherent text units from neural models, our work has the potential to significantly impact natural language generation and summarization\footnote{Code for the three models described in this paper can be found at www.stanford.edu/~jiweil/ .

___

#### **(#1)** [Hierarchical Imitation and Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.00590) (added 2018 March 28 02:31 AM)

`learn`, `hierarchical`, `framework`, `different`, `rl`, `utilize`, `horizon`, `demonstrate`

**Abstract:** We study the problem of learning policies over long time horizons. We present a framework that leverages and integrates two key concepts. First, we utilize hierarchical policy classes that enable planning over different time scales, i.e., the high level planner proposes a sequence of subgoals for the low level planner to achieve. Second, we utilize expert demonstrations within the hierarchical action space to dramatically reduce cost of exploration. Our framework is flexible and can incorporate different combinations of imitation learning (IL) and reinforcement learning (RL) at different levels of the hierarchy. Using long-horizon benchmarks, including Montezuma's Revenge, we empirically demonstrate that our approach can learn significantly faster compared to hierarchical RL, and can be significantly more label- and sample-efficient compared to flat IL. We also provide theoretical analysis of the labeling cost for certain instantiations of our framework.



- a hierarchical imitation learning framework that exploits two levels of hierarchy to effectively learn over long time horizons
